What do you mean?
The computer's translated the alien signal, and it's kind of alarming.
Why, what's wrong?
Jay, we've got a problem. I was wondering if there was any way you could shortcut the repairs and give us immediate takeoff capability.
Yes? What is it?
Yeah, okay. Go ahead.
Sorry to interrupt, but I'm gonna charge up the engines for a minute, okay?
Not <u>they</u>... <u>he</u>...
How's it coming on the engines?
Right. Talk to you.
Well, get started.
Hard to say.
How long to fix?
Has the hull been breached?
Just a minute, hold it, I'm checking.
Well, uh... good luck. I hope you won't need me, but if you do, I'm here.
-- And the cooling unit on the other.
That one section of the ventilator shaft has only two outlets -- you notice? The food storage room on one end --
The water will still recycle.
And then we run out of food and oxygen.
What was that? What the Christ was that?
Oh, no. Oh, no.
Well, we should at least be able to each buy our own planet.
Boy do I feel a lot better. It's a straight shot back to the Colonies, and then we can start taking bids on the paydirt. Any bets on the top bid?
Is it alive?
Oh -- God -- oh --
Don't know -- maybe we'll be real lucky and he just broke his neck. I knew we shouldn't of come down here.
Don't know -- Broussard got hurt somehow.
What the hell's going on?
And be right back.
All right... but do <u>not</u> go below decks.
You just sealed it off; it can't get to that section.
No, I don't want us separated.
There's some more combustible fuel down in the storage lockers next to the lounge. I'll go get it.
Meet us on the bridge. Be careful -- it's <u>huge</u> now.
Hey, are you guys still there? What's going on?
So it's trapped in between -- now we have to drive it out.
Well we better do something.
It looks completely different from the first one -- it's more like a worm with legs... and tentacles.
All right -- Roby and Melkonis will go with Faust. Hunter and I will make up the second team.
I hope not.
Might even incinerate the damn thing.
No, we can't afford to lose that much oxygen. We're going to have to flush it out.
We could put on our pressure suits and blow all the air out of the ship. That would kill it.
So does anybody have any suggestions?
I kind of like it.
Oh it's okay. I've had better cag than this, but I've had worse too, if you know what I mean.
Just hold us together till we're in space, that's all!
This dust is getting clogged in the intakes again!
The engines are fixed.
Hey, guess what?
Here, let me try.
It's really on there tight.
Then why the hell are you sitting around here?
Oh -- I'm not near ready yet.
And when will you be ready to do that?
Well... I'm going to have to blow the engines out...
Jay... how's it coming on the repairs?
Damn it! How long to fix?
Martin, this is Jay. The intakes are clogged with dust. We overheated and burned out a whole cell.
We'd be sitting ducks in the freezers.
We can't go into hypersleep with that thing running around loose.
You can't tell -- that kind of stuff could represent printed circuits...
It's a crude symbolic language -- looks primitive.
Isn't there some way we can get it off him?
It makes me sick to see him like that.
Hell of a defense mechanism. You don't dare kill it.
But this thing uses it for <u>blood</u>.
I never saw anything like that in my life... except molecular acid.
It's eating a hole in the floor!
God, that smoke's poisonous!
How about cutting it off? We can't pull it loose, but we can cut off everything but the bottom layer, where it's stuck to his face.
We don't know what might happen if we tried to kill it. At least right now it's keeping him alive.
Well, can't we kill it? I mean, we can't leave the damn thing on him.
We can't expect to understand a life form like this. We're out of our back yard. Things are different here.
Yeah, but how? His nose and mouth are blocked.
Blood's thoroughly oxygenated.
How does he breathe?
<u>He's</u> the only one that knows that.
Where did it come from?
Yeah... well, maybe he should have. I mean, you brought the goddamn thing in here. Maybe <u>you</u> deserve to get slapped.
He wouldn't open the lock; he was going to leave us out there.
I can't, the acid will pour out!
Let me go first; you stay behind me.
It must have stopped moving. I'm not getting anything.
Whoever's doing the herding is gonna have their hands pretty full. I think somebody should stay by the lifeboat to slam the door on the thing once it's inside, and to serve as... as...
Well... now we have to herd that thing up here.
What we really need is some red meat in here for bait.
It will be.
No... the risk is too great. Perhaps after we've destroyed the thing.
Should we go outside and bring him in?
The ship's gravitational attraction must have drawn him back.
Right. We've got a lot to accomplish. Let's get moving.
The flamethrower needs more fuel.
You can't say that; I think it's a good plan.
We can load the lifeboat up with explosives and trigger them remotely, once the lifeboat is in space.
Good! That's good!
If we could just get the <u>creature</u> into the lifeboat, we could launch it into space and blow it up.
It's time for drastic remedies.
I don't buy that. There's still time to destroy it and get ourselves in the freezers.
Oh no! We can't fight this thing! There's only six hours of air left -- we're dead men!
Does anybody know what happened?
Oh my God.
We've got six hours left.
Thing is, I'm about out of fuel.
That's right -- we can't kill it on the ship, but we can at least keep it at bay -- and maybe drive it into the air lock.
Listen, it sure didn't like this flamethrower.
At least it can't get up here now.
We'd better seal off the lower maintenance level; at least trap it there.
Got a better idea?
Sounds like a rough one.
While the rest of us wait down in the cooling unit with the net.
The only other thing I can think of is for somebody to crawl in there and flush it out.
We can't pump poison gas down into the cooling unit! It'll flood the whole ship!
Don't be an idiot.
Maybe we don't have to. It's trapped in there. We could just leave it in there all the way back to Irth.
How do we locate the creature?
Don't worry, it won't damage it, it'll just give it a little incentive.
Good. Get on it. But first, I'm issuing a standing order: from this moment forth, every one of us will wear protective garments, including helmets. Let's get down to the locker and change.
I think I could cobble something together. A long metal rod with a battery in it. Give it a hell of a shock.
The machine will bring his temperature down. His vital functions are strong.
Can you do anything for him?
He's running a fever.
Maybe we can catch it.
Well, what the hell good can we do in here? We can't grab it -- it might jump on us --
No, don't open the door. We don't want it escaping.
The door was closed. It must still be in here.
Now we're in for it.
Maybe it wasn't always dead.
How could anything be indigenous to this asteroid? It's dead.
Well, those things out there aren't the same, you know -- the spaceship and the pyramid. They're from different cultures and different races. That ship just landed here -- crashed like we did. The pyramid and the thing from it are indigenous.
What do you mean?
You know, it's fantastic -- the human race has gone this long without ever encountering another advanced life form, and now we run into a veritable zoo.
I'll come with you.
I'll do it. The rest of you continue.
Careful, don't get under it!
There. Should be coming through about there.
Hey now, what is this?
It wouldn't come.
That thing, God almighty, didn't you try to get it off him?
Well, how does it feel to be rich men?
Boy, that's terrific.
It's over, Hunter.
Thanks for the thought.
If you press the button right now, it will blow the whole nose of the ship off.
Is it armed?
Just keep your finger off the button till she's way away from the ship, that's all.
Hey look, somebody has to have his hands free to lock the creature in the lifeboat!
Isn't "bait" the word you used?
I should hope so! And we'd better make sure it's pretty far from the ship when we blow it.
This should do it.
It's not going to work.
We can use the flamethrower.
I think it's going to be almost impossible to drive it up into the lifeboat.
Our lives are more important. Anyway, we can take a small amount of the most valuable stuff with us on the lifeboat.
What about all the minerals and elements in the cargo hold? That's the only reason we came out here. We'd have to abandon them all. We'd be broke.
And the creature with it. We can make it back to Irth in the lifeboat.
Blow the ship up?
I've got an idea, but you're not going to like it.
We can't kill it on board. It's huge now and must have tremendous amounts of that acid in its body.
You will notice, though, that there are no more phases. Only four forms are shown. After that the pattern repeats.
... And Broussard got caught in their reproductive cycle.
And right next to it, that oval design with the markings -- it's a dead ringer for the spore casings.
Well... I suppose that star-shaped thing could be the parasite that got on Broussard. Is that what you mean?
In symbolic form... very stylized... but if you stare at it, you can see some of the different creatures we've been dealing with.
Recognizable! In that?
We sure need this flamethrower.
Don't count on it.
It was horrible -- horrible. Like a chicken.
You mean his body was still kicking when it ran off with him?
Listen, hadn't somebody better check on Broussard?
What common objects?
The same thing must've happened to the creatures on the other ship... except they took one of those jars on board, and opened it there.
That must have been when he got it.
Hey! what about the film?
This is horrible.
I think it's fizzled out.
What's happening up here?
It doesn't make any sense. It paralyzes him... puts him into a coma... then keeps him alive.
I think that's how it's getting oxygen to him.
It's some kind of organ -- it's inserted some kind of tube or something down his throat.
What is it -- I can't tell anything --
Look at that.
I guess I had it coming. Let's call it settled.
I keep my mouth pretty much shut, but I don't like hitting.
Jay, this is Cleave! Meet me at the main air lock!
Three blips! They're coming this way!
I've got 'em! They're back on my screens!
Just can that crap! I'm in command here till Chaz returns! And nobody's leaving this ship!
Why, you chickenshit bastard --
We can't spare the personnel. We've got minimum takeoff capability right now. That's why Chaz left us on board.
But they don't know about the translation! They could be in danger right now.
We're not going anywhere.
What do you mean, no?
I'm getting nowhere. The whole area around the pyramid is dead to transmission. I think we should go after them.
The computer just translated the goddamn message. It's not an S.O.S. It was a warning.
What? What was that?
Can you get them back?
I've completely lost their signal.
Now what's wrong?
And you and I will bag it, and then we'll take it to the ventral air lock, got it?
All right, then -- when it gets to the other side of the door, you sing out, then drop the door. Okay?
They're getting pretty close now.
Let's get moving with this net.
They're on the next level up.
Are they close?
I've got Hunter... and something else as well, in front of him.
Come on -- let's go above and see how they're coming with the gear.
We're the new pioneers, Chaz. We even have our own special diseases.
I can see you're putting your spare time to good use. Let me tell you something: you keep staring at hyperspace for long enough, they'll be peeling you off a wall. I've seen it happen.
Time and space have no meaning out here. We're living in Einsteinian equation.
We came out there, we'll go back. A long time by the clock, but a short time to us.
We can't even radio for help; the carrier wave wouldn't reach its destination till long after we'd died and turned to dust. We are utterly, absolutely alone. Can anybody really visualize such a scale of distances? Halfway across Creation...
That's the one about the albatross, right?
I was thinking of a line from an old poem: "Water, water everywhere, but not a drop to drink." All that space out there, and we're trapped in this ship.
I thought I'd find you here.
We'll have to trap it somehow. If we had a really strong piece of net, we could bag it.
And what do we do when we find it?
Room by room, corridor by corridor.
We've got about a week left, right?
Well, I kind of hate to point it out, but all our supplies are based on us spending a strictly limited amount of time out of suspended animation... and as you know, we used up most of that time in harvesting.
We'll have to catch it and eject it from the ship.
Maybe we could write it together.
The commander normally has first publication rights.
I'm going to write a book about this expedition. I'm going to call it "The Snark Log."
We're going into the freezers now.
We're going home. We're in hyperspace.
They're from a dead civilization; they're spores from a tomb. God knows how long they've been here.
Too primitive. It's a pre- technological construction. That slab was engineered by an Iron-Age culture at best.
Primitive pictorial languages are based on common objects in the environment, and this can be used as a starting point for translation...
That sounds a little fanciful...
It appears to have healed itself.
Is it still dripping?
No, thank God... just missed him.
Reminded me of when I was a kid and the roof leaked -- everybody running for the pots and pans.
We're just plain lucky. That could have gone right through the hull -- taken <u>weeks</u> to patch it.
Yes, thank heaven.
Let's let the machine work on him.
It's not coming off -- not without his whole face coming off too.
How the hell should I know? Come on, give me a hand, let's get him out of there!
What is it?
It won't come -- it's stuck.
Help me -- I'm going to try to get it off.
Oh God, oh God no.
<u>Don't touch him, watch it</u>!
<u>What is it</u>?
Can you see anything?
No, it's coming.
Is it still coming up, or is it hooked on something?
There, it caught!
Maybe we should just wait a few more minutes.
But what can we do? He's out of radio contact.
It'll yank him right off his feet if he's not expecting it. The line could get tangled in something.
Here's his line. We can haul him out of there if we have to.
Sun will be down in a minute.
If we don't hear from him soon, I think we better go in after him.
I couldn't make it out -- too much interference.
What'd he say?
Can't tell -- these weather conditions could erode anything, fast.
This looks ancient.
That creature sure must have considered it important... using his last strength to draw it...
Doesn't seem much doubt about it, does there?
We should be almost on top of it. I just can't quite...
It's close, real close.
My signal's fading.
All right. Now just remember: keep away from those weapons unless I say otherwise. Martin, do you read me?
Sorry. Nothing but that same damn transmission, every 32 seconds. I've tried every frequency on the spectrum.
Just settle down. Sandy, you get any response yet?
Well... this rock rotates every two hours. The sun should be coming up in about 20 minutes.
Well, we can't go anywhere in this darkness. How long till dawn?
Dell -- show me that on a screen.
I've got it. It's coming from ascension 6 minutes 32 seconds, declination -39 degrees 2 seconds.
Computer, what's the frequency of the transmission?
What's the frequency?
Sandy, can you home in on that beam?
Feast your eyes.
Sandy, you want to give us some vision?
Tastes like something you'd feed a chicken to make it lay more eggs.
What's the matter, you don't like this stuff?
First thing I'm going to do when we get back is eat some biological food.
Couldn't the pyramid have been built here by space travellers?
No. It's just too small to support fauna as big as the parasites. If there were a native ecology, it would have to be microscopic.
They never made it off the planet. The parasites won.
We do know that.
About four hours.
These day and night cycles are totally disorienting. I feel like we've been here for days, but it's only been how long?
Could be some kind of venom, or poison...
That tube must be depositing it in him.
It appears to be a heavy fluid of some sort... it blocks the X-rays...
Source of transmission is to the northeast... about 300 meters.
Just a second. Those aren't water vapor clouds; they have no moisture content.
My God, it's stormy for a piece of rock that size!
Men have waited centuries to contact another form of intelligent life in the universe. This is an opportunity which may never come again.
What can I do?
No good... it's eaten too much of me...
But I can save you -- get you to the Autodoc!
I'll get you out of there.
That was Melkonis... it ate Hunter...
What did it do to you?
And you stand aside while we drive it in, then shut the hatch, launch the boat, and --
And you'll let me know when you've got it coming this way...
All right, Martin, we'll be in touch with you on the communicator.
Who gets the privilege?
Yes, and maybe launch the boat and blow it too... if the others are injured.
Now. If we can get it into the boat, we won't have to blow it up -- we can just eject it into space.
So what do we do? Do we ignore it and finish loading the explosives into the boat -- or do we flush it out now?
It's stable; it doesn't hurt to drop it.
<u>Hey watch it</u>!
Here, carry these.
You know, it's funny -- this stuff we went to so much trouble to dig up -- this treasure, the paydirt -- it'll make it back to Irth just fine -- even if we're not with it.
But the idea's good, if we could just turn it around somehow.
Yeah... I forgot.
No, it won't work and I just realized why. There's only one hypersleep freezer on the lifeboat. Only one of us could survive.
Doesn't matter -- we're already at light speed. And when we get back to the Colonies, they'll pick us up in the network.
But the lifeboat can't accelerate to light speed.
Right... but it'll take a few minutes for the engines to overheat and melt down the core. In the meantime, we get in the lifeboat and leave the ship.
That'll blow the ship up.
Okay. First we shut down all the cooling systems on the stardrive engines.
Let's hear it.
That kind of remark is pointless. Now come on -- I want to hear every suggestion you can come up with, no matter how wild.
It was time for that a couple days ago.
No such luck. I saw it running down one of the corridors.
At least we're rid of the damn monster. It must have been the first thing sucked out of the ship.
Poor kitty; puss puss puss.
No, I had to seal off a whole section. We'd lose too much of our remaining air if we opened the connecting door.
Can we get to him?
I saw it. Faust got himself jammed in the air lock door. His body held it open.
... More spores coming.
Which presumably means...
Then that tomb... must have been some kind of fertility temple... where they stored their eggs, and maybe held mating rituals...
This is all the same creature. We're seeing the different stages in its life-cycle.
So the next step should be --
That next thing there -- six legs, tentacles -- that's the thing we saw in the food locker.
I know it looks like a senseless jumble, but if you look closely, there are recognizable forms.
Well... yes... there's a pattern... but it's meaningless to me.
Can you make out any pattern in all that?
What's that supposed to mean?
Two down, four to go.
By eating our food supplies.
How did it get so <u>big</u>?
Right now let's keep it closed.
That's a flip-flop gate to channel the air, but we can use it to trap the thing.
Let's be democratic.
So the only question left is: who gets to crawl down the airshaft?
The man would need protection, obviously -- as well as some way to drive the thing before him.
Are you <u>crazy</u>?
What do you think? Now we go in.
Go ahead, Jay.
This stuff's deadly -- I hope we know what we're doing.
Once we kill the thing we won't need the food any more -- we can go straight into hypersleep. Also, it sounds like that thing is already doing a pretty good job on our supplies; it may be fouling them all.
Hey, wait a minute! That's all our food supplies in there! We can't pump poison gas all over them!
I guess we open the door and net it.
It started crashing around right after we locked it in.
What's it doing, having a seizure?
Where are you?
We've got it up here! It's trapped! Get up here fast!
These will be very useful. At least we won't have to go digging around in closets with our bare hands. All right, here's the battle plan: we're going to break into two teams and start systematically covering the ship. Whoever finds it first, catches it in the net and ejects it from the nearest airlock. Clear?
But if we <u>haven't</u> caught it in a week, then we have to go into the freezers anyway.
All right, so that's what we've got. A week. It's plenty of time.
We won't need it then.
That's okay, he can remain in hypersleep until they're ready to treat him.
We'll have to go into quarantine, maybe for quite a while.
I think the best thing to do with Broussard is to just freeze him as he is. It'll arrest the progress of his disease, and he can get complete medical attention when we get back to the Colonies.
Quit complaining; we're in space.
That's the part that always makes me feel like I'm gonna puke -- when we accelerate into light speed.
With great pleasure.
You bet we made it. Martin, set course for Irth and accelerate us into stardrive.
We made it! Damn, we made it!
Let's take her into an escape orbit.
Up one kilometer, Jay.
Take us up.
They seem native to the planet. It's got an atmosphere and a dense gravity. It's dead now, but once it must have been fertile.
Where did the parasites come from?
If we knew exactly what happened to the beings on the other ship --
I can't lean on Faust any harder -- he's been working non-stop on the engines.
Look, I'm not trying to rub anybody's nose in anything. The important thing is just to get away from here as fast as possible.
I'm sorry to say it looks like you were right in the first place, Martin. We never should have landed here.
Is that its mouth?
Look at these suckers -- no wonder we couldn't get it off him.
Broussard had film in his datastick, didn't he? We can see what happened to him.
He went into the pyramid alone. We lost radio contact with him. When we pulled him out, it was on his face. It won't come off, not without injuring him.
Would somebody fill me in?
I understand why you did that.
Martin, this is an order! Open the door!
Chaz, listen to me -- we've broken every rule of quarantine. If we bring an organism on board, we won't have a single layer of defense left.
We can't leave him out here, open the door.
Chaz, if it's an organism, and we let it in, the ship will be infected.
You hear me, Martin? Open the outer door.
It's some kind of organism, it's attached itself to him. Let us in.
Chaz -- what happened to Broussard?
We're coming up now, open the outer lock door.
Can't talk now; Broussard's injured. We'll need some help getting him into the ship.
Thank Christ! We lost you! Listen, there's been a new development --
Yeah, we hear you! We're coming back!
Hey, can you guys hear me?
Tell you what, Martin. As soon as the engine's fixed --
This ship is full of cat hair.
But why draw it on the wall?
Well... it's obviously intentional... some kind of attempt at communication... maybe it's a symbol that means something to them...
What would you say that was supposed to mean?
I've always respected your opinion, Martin. If something worries you, it worries me.
Oh well... you know me.
I don't even know what I'm looking for.
Find anything we missed?
What killed it?
I agree. This is the single most important discovery in history.
It appears to be some sort of spacecraft. We're going to approach it.
Martin, uh, we've found it.
Good. I'm getting you clear too. Let's just keep the line open.
Okay, Chaz, I hear you. I've got you on my board.
Well, we won't need pressure suits, but breathing masks are called for. Sandy -- can you rig up some kind of portable unit that we can use to follow that transmission to its source?
Yeah, rock particles. Dust.
Not a one. It's dead.
Zero. Dry as a bone.
Good! Moisture content?
Ten to the fourth dynes per square centimeter.
Nontoxic... but unbreathable. Pressure?
10% argon, 85% nitrogen, 5% neon... and some trace elements.
Sandy... how far are we from the source of the transmission?
Engine room, what happened?
What the hell happened?
Turn on navigation lights.
Atmospheric turbulence. Dust storm.
No -- that's atmosphere. Cloud layer.
It's out of focus.
Well, it's finally happened.
Oh my God.
Computer, you have signalled a priority three message. What is the message?
Let's hear it.
Chaz, I've got something here on my security alert. A high priority from the computer...
This is Chaz speaking. Sorry, but we are not home. Our present location seems to be only halfway to Irth. Remain at your posts and stand by. That is all.
Sandy, contact traffic control.
Where are we?
Right. Fire up all systems.
All right, tycoons, let's stop spending our credit and start worrying about the job at hand.
Do you want a tablet?
It's nothing, Doc. Just a... touch of indigestion... something.
What is it?
Can I... um... have some water? Please?
Forget that. I want you off alcohol for at least seventy-two hours. I've got some toxin build-up tests still to run.
The head's okay, but I could sink a six-pack.
Wait a minute.
Let's get back and call this in.
Bloody big if it is. Top's open.
Looks like a spore. Fungus of some kind, maybe?
I told you we... what's that?
God, I hope that thing didn't bring down a virus.
Yeah, it's fine.
No, it's still breathing. Kinda clammy though. Are you sure your stick's not broken.
Is it dead?
It's a rhino.
Well, just keep looking. It's gotta be... whoa, Jesus!
Nada. No radiation... no movement... nothing.
Do you wanna head back and call it in?
Me either. I tell you, I used to be with a mining outfit on Callisto, and when something like that hits... believe me, you know about it.
We've got no option. We're gonna have to get it off.
Nah. I just wanna squeeze off a few rounds. 'Sides, they tagged the rhinos for the migration project, so they're protected. They'll dock you a month's pay for just mentioning it.
Good argument for gun-control. What are you going after, rhino?
Nice howitzer you've got there.
I can't reach her. Too much signal break-up.
Get her on-line. Now!
Drains right into the Central Reservoir.
I found it...
Quick! Run a trace on the culvert leading off the auto-shop maintenance pit.
Comin' up the Central Reservoir.
Where is she?
What? What's wrong? What is it?
Are you alright?
We're not gonna make it, are we?
Give or take.
How many of them are there?
Cassie, thank Christ! We're under attack.
Seal everything now!
It's on the board.
A three-second burn to port, on my mark.
What do you need?
Okay, give me the numbers.
Can you patch me a temporary loop on DCMGS?
Yeah. Turns out they dropped straight out of hyperspace.
We figured on it being a magnetic anomaly, but we ran a back-trace just to make sure.
A pair of incomings. They popped-up on the medium-range about thirteen twenty-four local time.
Better tell the boss.
That's the second time I ran it, and it still reads the same.
No, but I got something that might interest you.
I lose 'em all, that's why I'm still out here on this rock. Anything else you wanna ruin my day with?
You win some, you loose some.
Fucking great. I invested some money in them.
Yesterday. We got the Network feed from Gateway; it was the top story on 'Sixty Seconds'. Biggest market crash since twenty-four.
MarsCo went belly-up on the Dow Jones.
If I can get to the chopper, I'll meet you at the rendezvous. Don't wait for me.
We've dumped the whole data-base from one of the cleaning remotes into the helmet. It'll project the route through the sewer system onto the inside of the glass as you go.
About thirty minutes. Those are slimmed-down tanks, so no stopping to admire the scenery.
How much air-time have I got?
Alright, let's keep calm. We've got to have an option of some sort... there's got to be a way out of this.
Has anybody talked to them?
Auto-shop's sealed, but those boys are cut-off.
What's our weapons situation?
Unconfirmed reports of eighteen or so far, but the numbers are all over the place.
It's too late!
Force the door.
The door's sealed from inside. Doc Revna's in there, and it sounds like Ackland's going nuts.
What's going on?
Picking up velocity.
Can we move it to a different orbit in time?
Seven minutes ago, the third course change in an hour. Those incomings are going to skim past the communications platform just a little too close for comfort.
We ran a trajectory simulation. If they carry on along that path, it's possible they'll make intra-orbital insertion.
Where're they headed?
Sounds like a couple of escape shuttles.
Curious thing is, the mass detector says they're too small to carry a deep-space drive.
Couple more seconds!
Move it baby, or they're gonna be chewin' on my cojones!
No, he's stopped; he's totally still. Just take it nice and easy, babe. Nice and easy...
Is it still moving?
It's alright, it's cool...
Oh, man. That's no glitch!
I dunno. Might be a glitch.
Wait. Lost it.
Can't see a thing. Are you sure?
Just behind us, over to the right.
I'm picking up another signal.
Hold it, hold it...
It's moving slow. About... eleven metres. On the left.
Still got him?
Yeah, I got it.
Careful of that edging there...
Anything you say, Mammacitta.
But I'm going first...
I'll come with you.
Alright, okay. Look...
Hey, fair enough. If you won't come, I'll handle it myself.
What the hell are you doing?
Fuck the bonus. I hate heights. You wouldn't get me up there even if it wasn't night.
C'mon De Vries. Think of the bonus.
Forget it, man.
I've seen this mother, De Vries. We can bag it, no problem.
What? Are you nuts? Just the two of us?
Just got a reading...
Whoa, wait a minute...
That's a fact.
Goldsmith's gonna be plenty pissed at losing one of her babies.
There's no way a rhino'd survive that drop.
That's impossible, man. This fence is high-tensile. The breaking tolerance'd stand up to the strain of a rhino, easy. I know, I put it up.
One of 'em must have escaped.
Take a look at this.
Something spooking the rhinos?
Next time you have a thought like that? Keep it to yourself.
That's what I mean. This is the quietest I've ever heard it. It's unnatural.
Listen to what?
Hey! I was in shape before we started doing this.
Ah, quit griping. Keeps you in shape doesn't it?
One more sweep... one more sweep. I'm getting tired of one more fuckin' sweep. We're been lookin' for this thing for three days now, and found zip.
C'mon, man. One more sweep.
One final point. Killing this sonuvabitch ought to be a reward in itself. However, just to add a little incentive... I'm authorizing a hefty bonus in the next pay-packet for whoever does.
Nobody wander off on their own until it's found. Keep in pairs. Diller, once the first team's done their sweep I want you to go down with Annie to Three-Pump while she replaces it.
Where does that lead to?
Secondary fluidic shunt for the sewage system. I found the grating ripped right off. The little fucker was strong.
York just turned up outside. We're trying to get him into Infirmary.
Miss Noguchi! You're wanted in admin.
How tight are these shafts?
We had to. They were just too cumbersome for some of the conduits you're gonna have to negotiate. Besides, all the crap floating around reduces visibility to the extent where I doubt having helmet lights would have make that much difference, anyway. Maintenance lights down there oughta be enough to do the trick.
Yeah, I stripped down a motion tracker and hardwired it through to the helmet pick-ups, too. That's also on the display.
Is this the suit?
Which mean physically going outside.
Nah. It's got programmable facilities, but it was never rigged for remote operation. Someone'd have to go up to the cab to get it up and running.
That sounds promising. Can we operate the crane from here?
Shit! Our armory's a big blue box from the back shelf of stores. We got about two clips left for an autoloader, and that's it.
And, nothing. They checked out just fine.
Give me twenty minutes and I'll do it myself.
She was running a little sluggish on the way back. Think the turbines might be playing up.
What's the problem?
Hey, Jan. See if you can get someone to check out the chopper.
Blow those suckers, Driscoll!
Okay, I'm out of here!
Right. Auto-shop, you all set?
Okay, we're in business.
Right. When you've done that, don't waste any time getting out of there. Once that crane starts moving...well, it's bound to provoke some kind of response.
Sorry. Two green enabling buttons...
Okay, I pull the access panel off of the console. Insert the disk, and press the green enabling button...
Let's just run through it one more time so I know you've got it straight.
Forget it. I wouldn't ask somebody to do something I wouldn't do myself. Where's the disk?
There's still time to back-out.
It's not all good news. We had to take off the helmet lights. You'll be going in blind.
Well... try the headset.
Communications to auto-shop go through an F.O. link off the main trunk. That's down with the other feeds.
Looks like it.
They knocked out the external feeds.
How many... how many people are missing?
Everything on this module is locked and sealed. We've lost 'B', 'C', and 'E' wings, but 'E' was the only one we didn't manage to totally evacuate.
You've checked that end?
Central Pumping. All the waste gets treated, broken-down, and flushed out into the swamp. If it wanted a quick exit then it really lucked- out.
What is that?
It left a melted trail on the deck all the way down to here...
Punch me in a solution for their delta-vee.
They've changed their heading again.
Get off an all-bands emergency distress, and put it on a repeater.
Already working on it.
Just give them the facts. They can leap to their own conclusions.
Fort Powell. What do we tell 'em?
Done it already. Nothing matches.
Have you got an updated Lloyds' Almanac to cross-reff them through?
That's what we thought.
You have to...
I... I can't!
I can... feel it moving around inside me. You've got to kill me.
What can I do?
They...they snapped my legs to fit... fit me in here. I don't...remember what happened next.
Don't wait for me!
Hurry it up.
Detour. Other way's blocked...
That's the wrong way!
I'm out of ammo. Get inside, get inside!
What do I think? I think if those Marines from Powell don't shift their butts getting here, we're gonna get caught up to our necks in the middle of something we shouldn't.
So, what do you think?
Alright. Pull some trackers and headsets out of stores, and I'll sign a release for the weapons. Cassie, organise a team roster and put it on the board.
Cornering it shouldn't be a problem. Each part of this station is basically a self-sufficient deep-space transport module running off external couplers. If we disconnect them and seal off every section, we've got a ceiling of about thirty-six hours on internal power. That should give us ample time to find it.
Ackland? I don't know him well enough to say. If we were back on Earth we could run him though an Aldhoven test and find out for sure. There's not much we can do out here.
Do you believe him?
Again? How long before we start noticing the difference?
Think I spoke too soon...
What do you mean?
Ah, don't worry about I.C.C. They're the least of your problems right now.
When we get the link back, and I send this in, I.C.C.'ll throw a fit.
I'm going to need you to co-sign the report. Until we come up with something, this'll be treated as first degree murder.
I've found Ackland!
Check out the tent.
Yeah. Somebody won.
There'd have to be a helluva good reason for him not to.
Do you think Ackland'll sit tight?
Don't worry about it. If the Network goes by the book, like everyone figures they will, a Marine gunboat from Powell'll drop-by for a look- see in four-or-five days. They can go poke around out there and find whatever it was hit us. All we've gotta do is sit tight.
Sure. Do me good to stretch my legs.
'We'? You wanna fly out there with me?
First light, we'll take a chopper out there and tell them to head back.
Nothing. With the satellite down, we can't transmit over the mountain range. He's most likely sitting there wondering why he can't raise us.
Any luck raising Ackland's party?
Real man' drink.
What is that?
Just curious. There's a lot of talk goes around.
What is this? 'Twenty Questions'?
Six month stint on Datus.
And before that?
How long you been out here for now, anyway? Three months?
Uh-huh. Used to get it pretty bad. I'd wake up in a cold sweat and want to claw open a vacuum hatch.
Is that a fact.
I'm serious. That's why I switched from orbiting to planetary installations.
No, not really. More sort of the 'claustrophobic' type.
Not too much of the socializing type, then?
I've got a lot of thinking to do. 'Sides, the room was getting too crowded for me.
Didn't feel like whoopin' it up with the rest of us blue collars, huh?
I just... wanted to be put on my own for a while. Clear my head.
Hey, boss. Wondered where you'd gotten to.
We haven't used Big Bertha since we relocated the generator module. That was four months ago. I can't ask for them to keep bringing spares in on the shuttle, it's already costing too much as it is.
See that sheathing on the suspension? Eaten away. Same thing with the pumps on the base air purifiers. The algae out here just isn't good on these new plastics.
You got it, cowboy.
Give me a yell is something happens.
'Bout five minutes.
What time's sundown?
Nah, I'll stick it out for another hour or so.
You should hit the sack, too.
Today's party's finished their sweep, the relief team's out there now. Everybody else is either asleep or running shift in the auto-shop.
Yeah, 'Good Evening' to you, too.
How's it going?
Tactical nukes, maybe?
Yeah, exactly. Those're pre-programmed course adjustments you're looking at.
Camped out by the navi-beacon out on Linson's Range. They're making their own way back tomorrow.
Where'd you leave them?
Why not? Tell me, Phoebe, do you want some day to have an award like that of your own?
I call myself Phoebe.
And what is your name?
It's a very famous name, Mr. deWitt.
How do you know my name?
We won't disturb her rest. It seems she left her award in the taxicab. Will you give it to her?
Miss Harrington's resting, Mr. deWitt. She asked me to see who it is...
Hello, there. Who are you?
Very well. I shall drop you and go on to the party. I have no intention of missing it...
I'm tired. I want to go home.
You're being childish.
Exactly. Here. Take it to the party instead of me.
It's the same thing, isn't it?
No, it's not. It's for this.
Max has gone to a great deal of trouble, it's going to be an elaborate party, and it's for you.
Because I don't want to.
I don't think I'm going.
You can have one at Max's.
I don't suppose there's a drink left...
Couldn't go on? You'll give the performance of your life.
I won't play tonight. I couldn't. Not possibly. I couldn't go on...
Take your nap, now. And good luck for tonight.
And you realize - you agree how completely you belong to me?
Then say so.
I had lunch with Karen not three hours ago. As always with women who want to find out things, she told more than she learned... ... do you want to change your story about Lloyd beating at your door the other night?
You used my name and my column to blackmail Karen into getting you the part of "Cora" - and you lied to me about it!
I was there, I saw you and heard you through the dressing room door!
That's not true!
She did like you, she helped and trusted you! You paid her back by trying to take Bill away!
I had to get in, to meet Margo! I had to say something, be somebody, make her like me!
Answer my question! Weren't you paid to get out of town?
She was a liar, she was a liar!
But the $500 you got to get out of town brought you straight to New York - didn't it?
She never proved anything, not a thing!
A matter of opinion. Granted. It is also true that you worked in a brewery. But life in the brewery was apparently not as dull as you pictured it. As a matter of fact, it got less and less dull - until you boss's wife had your boss followed by detectives!
What of it?
It is true that your parents were poor. They still are. And they would like to know how you are - and where. They haven't heard from you for three years...
What of it?
Your name is not Eve Harrington. It is Gertrude Slescynski.
Then if you won't get out, I'll have you thrown out.
You're too short for that gesture. Besides, it went out with Mrs. Fiske.
... taken it for granted? That you and I...
So does the history of the world for the past twenty years. I don't enjoy putting it as bluntly as this, frankly I had hoped that you would, somehow, have known - have taken it for granted that you and I...
Belong - to you? That sound medieval - something out of an old melodrama...
A dull cliche.
I can't believe my ears...
Everything. Because after tonight, you will belong to me.
What have you got to do with it?
More plainly and more distinctly? I Have not come to New Haven to see the play, discuss your dreams, or to pull the ivy from the walls of Yale! I have come to tell you that you will not marry Lloyd - or anyone else - because I will not permit it.
What do you mean by that?
Very well, plainly and distinctly. Although I consider it unnecessary - because you know as well as I, what I am about to say. Lloyd may leave Karen, but he will not leave Karen for you.
Addison, will you please say what you have to say plainly and distinctly - and then get out so I can take my nap!
Not with me, you're no champion. You're stepping way up in class.
Champion to champion.
- it's important right now that we talk. Killer to killer.
I still don't know what you're getting at. Right now I want to take my nap. It's important that I-
Yes, you did. You still do.
I never intended you to be.
Look closely, Eve, it's time you did. I am Addison deWitt. I'm nobody's fool. Least of all - yours.
I'm sure you mean something by that, Addison, but I don't know what...
It is possible - even conceivable - that you've confused me with that gang of backward children you've been playing tricks on - that you have the same contempt for me that you have for them?
I don't know what I take you for anything...
What do you take me for?
Well, say something - anything! Congratulations, skol - good work, Eve!
There never was, there'll never be another like you.
We sat and talked, Addison. I want a run of the play contract.
You sat and talked until it was light...
The setting wasn't romantic, but Lloyd was. He woke me up at three in the morning, banging on my door - he couldn't sleep, he told me - he's left Karen, he couldn't go on with the play or anything else until I promised to marry him... we sat and talked until it was light. He never went home...
Was the setting properly romantic - the lights on dimmers, gypsy violins off stage?
We decided the night before last, before we came up here...
I see. And when was this unholy alliance joined?
She doesn't know.
... and Karen.
Addison, won't it be just perfect? Lloyd and I - there's no telling how far we can go... he'll write great plays for me, I'll make them be great! You're the only one I've told, the only one that knows except Lloyd and me...
- and artistically, the most promising! Eve dear, this is Addison.
You have no right to say such things!
Lloyd Richards is commercially the most successful playwright in America-
I'm in love with Lloyd!
I know nothing about Lloyd and his loves - I leave those to Louisa May Alcott. But I do know you.
It's nothing of the kind! Lloyd loves me, I love him!
So that's it. Lloyd. Still just the Theater, after all...
I didn't mean just the Theater.
- something about an old road ending and a new one starting - paved with stars...
Addison, just a few minutes ago. When I told you this would be a night to remember - that it would bring me everything I wanted-
She's always been so fantastically devoted to Lloyd. I would imagine that only death or destruction could keep her-
Lloyd and I.
That's for tonight. You're invited. We're having everyone up after the performance.
Some plain soda. Lloyd must be expecting a record run in New Haven...
Lloyd. I never have any, and he likes a couple of drinks after we finish - so he sent it up...
Also with the reluctant compliments of Max Fabian.
Max is paying for it. He and Lloyd had a terrific row but Lloyd insisted... well. Can I fix you a drink?
Suites are for expense accounts. Aren't you being extravagant?
Did I say killer? I meant champion. I get my boxing terms mixed.
Why'd call me a killer?
The mark of a true killer. Sleep tight, rest easy - and come out fighting...
You could sleep, too, couldn't you?
Plenty of time for a nice long nap - we rehearsed most of last night...
Paved with what, then?
You know me better than that.
All paved with diamonds and gold?
It'll be a night to remember. It'll bring to me everything I've ever wanted. The end of an old road - and the beginning of a new one...
Frankly - yes.
Are you that sure of tomorrow?
Stop rehearsing your column... Isn't it strange, Addison? I thought I'd be panic-stricken, want to run away or something. Instead, I can't wait for tonight to come. To come and go...
And tomorrow morning you will have won your beachhead on the shores of Immortality...
Just like it.
What a day - what a heavenly day...
I hope you mean what you say, Eve. I intend to hold you to it.
I confide in you and rely on you more than anyone I've ever known! To say a thing like that now - without any reason - when I need you more than ever...
It wasn't meant to be.
I don't think that's funny.
Do you know, Eve - sometimes I think you keep things from me.
Just like that.
Just like that, eh?
Oddly enough - she didn't say a word about Margo. Just that she'll be happy to do what she can to see that I play the part.
She mentioned, of course, that Margo expects to play the part?
I discussed it very openly. I told her that I had spoken to Lloyd - and that he was interested.
Heart to heart? Woman to woman? Including a casual reference to the part of "Cora" - and your hopes of playing it.
Nothing of the kind. Karen and I had a nice talk.
I'm not surprised. After all that humble pie...
Just some coffee.
I believe I will.
You take charge.
I can wait. Where would you like to go? We'll make this a special night...
I'm about to go into the shower, I won't be able to hear you...
A fine old theater, the Shubert. Full of tradition, untouched by the earthquake - so sorry - fire... by the way, what was your husband's name?
Yes. The Shubert.
And that memorable night when Margo first dazzled you from the stage - which theater was it in San Francisco? Was it - the Shubert?
Yes. I do.
San Francisco. An oasis of civilization in the California desert. Tell me, do you share my high opinion of San Francisco?
- perhaps more than one. There's so much I want to know. I've heard your story in bits and pieces... your home in Wisconsin, your tragic marriage, your financial attachment to Margo - it started in San Francisco, didn't it? I say - your idolatry of Margo started in San Francisco, didn't it?
I'm not enough for a paragraph.
Let's have a minimum of pretending. I'll want to do a column about you-
I'd love to! Or should I pretend I'm busy?
After you change, if you're not busy elsewhere, we can have supper.
I am somebody.
Even if I wanted to - as you say - be less humble, blow my own horn... how would I do it? I'm less than nobody.
It needn't be.
Even so. One isolated pretty good performance by an understudy. It'll be forgotten tomorrow.
We all come into this world with our little egos equipped with individual horns. If we don't blow them - who will?
I don't think I've done anything to sound off about.
I think the time has come for you to shed some of your humility. It is just as false not to blow your horn at all as it is to blow it too loudly...
A revolutionary approach to the Theater. However, if I may a suggestion...
It's not modesty. I just don't try to kid myself.
You're more than modest.
You're more than kind. But it's still Miss Channing's performance. I'm just a carbon copy you read when you can't find the original...
Of course your performance was no surprise to me. After the other day I regarded it as no more than - a promised fulfilled.
I consider myself lucky they didn't throw things.
I expected to find this little room overcrowded, with a theater full of people at your feet...
Certainly, Mr. deWitt...
May I come in?
That's all television is, my dear. Nothing but auditions.
Tell me this. Do they have auditions for television?
You next move, it seems to me, should be toward television.
Like I just swam the English Channel. Now what?
Feeling better, my dear?
Because that is what they are. Go make him happy.
Why do they always look like unhappy rabbits?
Claudia dear, come closer. This is Max Fabian. He is a producer. Go do yourself some good.
That's how you met me. In passing.
This must be, at long last, our formal introduction. Until now we have met only in passing...
Miss Caswell is an actress. A graduate of Copacabana School of Dramatic Arts. Ah... Eve.
We never met. That's why.
You have me confused with Dan Dailey. You go sit by the piano. And you come sit by me. Good night.
Let's go sit by the piano.
I don't want to make trouble. All I want is a drink.
You have a point. An idiotic one, but a point.
Well, I can't yell "Oh, butler," can I? Maybe somebody's name is Butler...
That isn't a waiter, my dear. That's a butler.
Now there's something a girl could make sacrifices for.
Every now and then, some elder statesman of the Theater or cinema assures the public that actors and actresses are just plain folk. Ignoring the fact that their greatest attraction to the public is their complete lack of resemblance to normal human beings.
As soon as the peasants stop pawing her.
I'm giving her a very high-class party. It ain't like a rehearsal, she don't have to be late.
And too many of them are produced.
In my case it's necessary. Too many taxi drivers write plays.
We all have abnormality in common. We are a breed apart from the rest of the humanity, we Theater folk. We are the original displaced personalities...
This answer satisfies me a hundred percent.
What makes a man walk into a lion cage with nothing but a chair?
Answer me this. What makes a man become a producer?
Gable. Why a feller like that don't come East to do a play...
It is senseless to insist that theatrical folk in New York, Hollywood and London are no different from the good people of Des Moines, Chillicothe and Liverpool. By and large, we are concentrated gatherings of neurotics, egomaniacs, emotional misfits, and precocious children-
She may be later than you think...
It's new Margo. But she's just as late as the old one.
Margo? Lunching in public?
From the smartness of your dress, I take it your luncheon companion is a lady?
A happy coincidence.
You were there? At the play - last night?
I was there. An eyewitness.
Then you've heard too.
She was magnificent.
Then stop being a star - start treating your guests as your supporting cast!
To the best of my recollection, neither your name nor your performance entered the conversation.
The implication being that I have not been reading them as written.
Eve was incredibly modest. She insisted that no credit was due her, that Lloyd felt as he did only because she read lines exactly as he had written them.
How nice for Lloyd. And how nice for Eve. How nice for everybody.
Bill didn't say - but Lloyd was beside himself. He listened to his play as if someone else had written it, he said, it sounded so fresh, so new, so full of meaning...
A mass of music and fire. That's me. An old kazoo and some sparkles. Tell me - was Bill swept away, too, or were you too full of Revelation to notice?
In time she'll be what you are.
It wasn't reading, it was a performance. Brilliant, vivid, something made of music and fire...
I take it she read well.
Margo, as you know, i have lived in the Theater as a Trappist monk lives in his faith. I have no other world, no other life - and once in a great while I experience that moment of Revelation for which all true believers wait and pray. You were one. Jeanne Eagels another... Paula Wessely... Hayes - there are others, three or four. Eve Harrington will be among them...
Was she that bad?
Completely. Nor, I am sure, could anyone else present tell you how Miss Caswell read or whether Miss Caswell read or rode a pogo stick.
Just slipped your mind.
Frankly, I don't remember.
How... how was Miss Caswell?
It just slipped your mind.
Of course I knew.
Didn't you know?
Eve! My understudy...
I refer to your new and unpregnant understudy. Eve Harrington.
I consider it highly unnatural to allow a girl in an advanced state of pregnancy-
Naturally enough, your understudy.
Is it really? I must start wearing a watch, I never do, you know... who read with Miss Caswell? Bill? Lloyd? Well, it couldn't have been Max! Who?
The audition was called for 2:30. It is now nearly four.
Over? It can't be. I've come to read with her. I promised Max.
Miss Caswell got lucky too late. The audition is over.
It's good luck before an audition. She'll be all right once it starts.
Being violently ill to her tummy.
The ladies' - shall we say - lounge?
Miss Caswell, at the moment, is where I can lend no support - moral or otherwise.
Why so remote, Addison? I should think you'd be at the side of your protegee, lending her moral support...
You mustn't worry about your little charge. She is in safe hands.
Then you two must have a long talk-
We have that in common.
You've heard of her great interest in the Theater-
It could only have been your natural timidity that kept you from mentioning it...
Eve, this is an old friend of Mr. deWitt's mother - Miss Caswell, Miss Harrington... Addison, I've been wanting you to meet Eve for the longest time-
I do not. How do you do?
Dear Margo. You were an unforgettable Peter Pan - you must play it again, soon. You remember Miss Caswell?
I distinctly remember striking your name from the guest list. What are you doing here?
Everything... everything's so funny...
Tomorrow we meet at City Hall at ten- - and you're going to be on time.
When? When are you going to do it?
Maybe just a little around the edges.
I guess at this point I'm what the French call 'de trop'...
We know you, we've seen you before like this. Is it over - or just beginning?
Geniuses don't need good luck. I do.
Good luck, genius...
Right here. A minute ago.
You've already met.
This is Eve Harrington.
The air lines have clocks, even if you haven't! I start shooting a week from Monday - Zanuck is impatient, he wants me, he needs me!
A foursquare, upright, downright, forthright married lady... that's for me. And no more make believe! Off stage or on... remember, Lloyd. I mean it, now. Grown-up women only, I might even play a mother - only one child, of course, not over eight... Lloyd, will you promise not to be angry with me?
Often enough to keep the franchise.
I'm going to have a home. Not just a house I'm afraid to stay in... and a man to go with it. I'll look up at six o'clock - and there he'll be... remember, Karen?
With the paper to prove it.
A married lady.
You know what I'm going to be?
Never try to outguess Margo.
You know why I forgive Eve? Because she's left good behind - the four of us, together like this, it's Eve's fault - I forgive her...
You've got it backwards. Even for Wilkes-Barre.
There goes Eve. Eve evil, Little Miss Evil. But the evil that men do - how does it go, groom? Something about the good they leave behind - I played it once in rep in Wilkes Barre...
I want everybody to shut up about Eve. Just shut up about Eve, that's all I want. Give Karen more wine... ... never have I been so happy. Isn't this a lovely room? The Cub Room. What a lovely, clever name. Where the elite meet. Never have I seen so much elite - and all with their eyes on me. Waiting for me to crack that little gnome over the noggin with a bottle. But not tonight. Even Eve. I forgive Eve... there they go.
What would you like? Texas?
Groom- - may I have a wedding present?
Pass me the empty bottle. I may find her... why, look. There's Rasputin.
I understand she is now the understudy in there.
"Please forgive me for butting into what seems such a happy occasion - but it's most important that I speak with you. Please" - it's underlined - "meet me in the Ladies' Room. Eve."
The point is - in the cathedral, a ball park or a penny arcade - we want to have you two beside us our nearest and dearest friends.
Something simple. A fur coat over a nightgown...
I'll marry you if it turns out you have no blood at all.
It's only for the license. There's a three-day wait - blood tests, things like that...
To Margo. To my bride-to-be.
You were great.
He does not exaggerate. I was good.
But you may quote me as follows. Quote. Tonight Miss Margo Channing gave a performance in your cockamamie play, the like of which I have never seen before and expect rarely to see again. Unquote.
The so-called art of acting is not one for which I have a particularly high regard...
That suddenly makes the whole thing believable.
Bill... ... where are you going? To find Eve?
I think you do know but you won't or can't tell me. I said before it was going to be my last try, and I meant it. I can't think of anything else to do. I wish I could. We usually wind up screaming and throwing things as the curtain comes down. Then it comes up again and everything's fine. But not this time. You know there isn't a playwright in the world who could make me believe this would happen between two adult people. Goodbye, Margo.
I - I don't know, Bill. Just a feeling, I don't know...
You've had so many reasons for not wanting to marry me... Margo, tell me what's behind all this.
I wouldn't want you to marry me just to prove something.
Then what would be enough? If we were married?
I wish it were.
But if I tell you it is - as I just did. Were you listening to me? Isn't that enough?
It's not nonsense.
Just being happy? Just stopping all this nonsense about Eve - and Eve and me?
The terms are too high. Unconditional surrender.
Margo, let's make peace.
I admit I may have seen better days, but I am still not to be had for the price of a cocktail - like a salted peanut.
Come on, get up. I'll buy you a drink.
Don't be condescending.
Well, I am.
I've been aware of that for some time.
It's obvious you're not a woman.
It's time you found out. I love you. I love you. You're a beautiful and intelligent woman- - a beautiful and intelligent woman and a great actress- - at the peak of her career. You have every reason for happiness- - every reason, but due to some strange, uncontrollable, unconscious drive you permit the slightest action of a kid- - kid like Eve to turn you into a hysterical, screaming harpy! Now once and for all, stop it!
That word again! I don't even know what it means...
No, I'll tell it to you! For the last time, I'll tell it to you. Because you've got to stop hurting yourself, and me, and the two of us by these paranoiac tantrums!
Tell that to Dr. Freud! Along with the rest of it...
I didn't know Eve Harrington was your understudy until half past two this afternoon!
I am sick and tired of these paranoiac outbursts!
The playwright doesn't make the performance - and it doesn't just happen! And this one didn't - full of fire and music and whatnot, it was carefully rehearsed I have no doubt, over and over, full of those Bill Sampson touches!
You've been all through that with Lloyd-
- shows up for an audition when everyone knew I'd be here... and gives a performance! Out of nowhere - gives a performance!
Now don't get carried away-
Such nonsense, what do you all take me for - little Nell from the country? Been my understudy for over a week without my knowing, carefully hidden no doubt-
Here we go...
Well, you needn't. I will not be tolerated. And I will not be plotted against!
I'm trying terribly hard.
You're being terribly tolerant, aren't you?
Don't calm down.
I will not calm down!
The gong rang. The fight's over. Calm down.
The ex-ship news' reporter. No body, no voice, all mind!
What a body, what a voice.
I'm nothing but a body with a voice. No mind.
I mix what I like.
Don't mix your metaphors.
Poor little flower. Just dropped her petals and folded her tent...
I wouldn't be surprised. Sometimes you frighten me.
I must have frightened her away.
The kid. Junior.
And you, I take it, are the Paderewski who plays his concerto on me, the piano? Where is Princess Fire-and-Music?
So full of meaning, fire and music!
You wouldn't understand. How was Miss Caswell?
What fire and music?
Eve? How enchanting... Wherever did you get the idea of having Eve read with Miss Caswell?
What's all over?
It's all over.
Everybody has a heart - except some people. Of course I've got bicarb. There's a box in the pantry. We'll put your name on it. Max Fabian. It'll say there. Always. Just for you.
No heart to burn.
If my guests do not like it here, I suggest they accompany you to the nursery where I'm sure you will all feel more at home.
Then without feeling, your guests were also wondering whether the music couldn't be a shade more on the - shall we say, happier side?
You know nothing about feelings, natural or unnatural.
Wouldn't you feel more natural taking a bow?
It hasn't been laid out, we haven't finished with the embalming. As a matter of fact, you're looking at it. The remains of Margo Channing. Sitting up. It is my last wish to be buried sitting up.
Many of your guests have been wondering when they may be permitted to view the body. Where has it been laid out?
I can always get a fresh one. Karen - you're a Gibson girl...
The kid - junior, that is - will be right down. Unless you'd like to take her drink up to her...
Cut! Print it! What happens in the next reel? Do I get dragged off screaming to the snake pit?
She hasn't cut them yet, and you know it! So when you start judging an idealistic dreamy-eyed kid by the barroom, Benzedrine standards of this megalomaniac society - I won't have it! Eve Harrington has never by word, look, thought or suggestion indicated anything to me but her adoration for you and her happiness at our being in love! And to intimate anything else doesn't spell jealousy to me - it spells a paranoic insecurity that you should be ashamed of!
What about her teeth? What about her fangs?
Mad! Darling, there are certain characteristics for which you are famous - on stage and off. I love you for some of them - and in spite of others. I haven't let those become too important to me. They're part of your equipment for getting along in what is laughably called out environment - you've got to keep your teeth sharp. All right. But you will not sharpen them on me - or on Eve...
This is my cue to take you in my arms and reassure you - but I'm not going to. I'm too mad-
For instance - you!
For instance what?
Stop calling her a kid! It so happens there are particular aspects of my life to which I would like to maintain sole and exclusive rights and privileges!
Now how can you take offense at a kid trying in every way to be as much like her ideal as possible!
Stage-struck kid... she's a young lady - of qualities. And I'll have you know I'm fed up with both the young lady and her qualities! Studying me as if - as if I were a play or a set of blueprints! How I walk, talk, think, eat, sleep!
Thirty minutes, forty minutes! What of it?
Of course it's funny - this is all too laughable to be anything else. You know what I think about this - this age obsession of yours - and now this ridiculous attempt to whip yourself up into a jealous froth because I spent ten minutes with a stage-struck kid-
I don't think that's funny!
I've always denied the legend that you were in 'Our American Cousin' the night Lincoln was shot...
Clyde Fitch, thought you may not think so, was well before my time!
I can't believe you're making this up - it sounds like something out of an old Clyde Fitch play...
So you've pointed out, so often. So many qualities, so often. Her loyalty, efficiency, devotion, warmth, affection - and so young. So young and so fair...
So she seems.
She's a girl of so many rare qualities.
It's a pretty rare quality these days.
She's a girl of so many interests.
Well, we started talking, she wanted to know all about Hollywood, she seemed so interested...
That never stopped you before.
I ran into Eve on my way upstairs; she told me you were dressing.
I had no idea you were even here.
When I'm guest of honor?
I thought you were going to be late-
Looks like I'm going to have a very fancy party...
Remind me to tell you about when I looked into the heart of an artichoke.
You've heard it. About when I looked through the wrong end of a camera finder.
Don't let me kill the point. Or isn't it a story for grownups?
To put me to bed? Take my clothes off, hold my head, tuck me in, turn off the lights, tiptoe out...? eve would. Wouldn't you, Eve?
Need any help?
This is my house, not a theater! In my house you're a guest, not a director-!
Cut it out.
Happy little housewife...
It won't play.
It's a good thought.
You're in a beehive, pal, didn't you know? We're all busy little bees, full of stings, making honey day and night- - aren't we, honey?
Outside of a beehive, Margo, your behavior would hardly be considered either queenly or motherly!
I love you too. Good night, darling-
I'll check with Eve...
I love you...
How is Eve? Okay?
Yeah... I will.
She hasn't missed a week since I left - but you know all that, you probably tell her what to write... anyway, I sent her a list of people to ask - check with her.
It's no secret, I know all about the party - Eve wrote me...
Of course, birthday and welcome home... who'll I ask?
I get a party, don't I?
Many happy returns of the day...
The reading could have been better, but you said it - now "many happy returns of the day..."
Happy birthday, darling...
And who remembered it? Who was there on the dot, at twelve midnight...?
Bill... Bill, it's your birthday.
Sure! Like the Western Union boys used to do...
Kid stuff or not, it doesn't happen every day, I want to heat it - and if you won't say it, you can sing it...
Bill, you know how much I do - but over the phone, now really, that's kid stuff...
Wait a minute! You can't hang up, you haven't even said it-
A big hurry, be quick about it - so good night, darling, and sleep tight...
You in a hurry?
- in a tin can, cellophane or wrapped in a Navajo blanket, I want you home...
I leave in a week - the picture's all wrapped up, we previewed last night... those previews. Like opening out of town, but terrifying. There's nothing you can do, you're trapped, you're in a tin can-
When - when are you coming back?
Then you're crazy.
That I am...
You're my girl, aren't you?
Bill? Have I gone crazy, Bill?
What a thoughtful, ever-lovin' thing to do-
Call me when you get in...
Knit me a muffler.
As of this moment you're six years old...
Am I going to lose you, Bill? Am I?
And cut that out right now.
I don't want to be childish, I'd settle for just a few years-
How childish are you going to get before you quit it?
- you're a setup for some gorgeous wide-eyed young babe.
Everybody can't be Gregory Peck.
You're not such a bargain, you know, conceited and thoughtless and messy-
Don't get stuck on some glamour puss-
I understand they've got the Indians pretty well in hand...
Take care of yourself out there...
All the religions in the world rolled into one, and we're Gods and Goddesses... isn't it silly, suddenly I've developed a big protective feeling for her - a lamb loose in our big stone jungle...
I told her. I sounded off.
Did she tell you about the Theater and what it meant?
The lack of pretense, that sort of strange directness and understanding-
Eve. I'd forgotten they grew that way...
She's quite a girl, that what's-her name...
Byron couldn't have said it more graciously... here we go-
Like a nylon lemon peel-
Can't keep his eyes off my legs.
Where's my coat?
Real diamonds in a wig. The world we live in...
Oh well... ... look through the wigs, maybe it got caught-
Heaven help me, I love a psychotic.
Hi. My wonderful junk yard. The mystery and dreams you find in a junk yard-
I'm a junk yard.
Only in some ways. You're prettier...
Show me a human and I might have!
Is it sabotage, does my career mean nothing to you? Have you no human consideration?
Thank you so much.
Forty-five minutes from now my plane takes off and how do I find you? Not ready yet, looking like a junk yard-
Only thing, what I go after, I want to go after. I don't want it to come after me.
I'm only human, rumors to the contrary. And I'm as curious as the next man...
You hear all kinds of things.
I'm in love with Margo. Hadn't you heard?
You're quite a girl.
- and for you.
Your make-up's a little heavy.
When you told me that whatever I became, it would be because of you-
When I told you what every young actress should know.
Then face it. I have. Since that first night - here - in the dressing room.
I'm for it.
You're always after truth - on the stage. What about off?
From what would I be running?
Don't run away, Bill.
The names I've been called. But never Svengali. Good luck.
What have I got to do with it?
So am I.
I'm talking about you. And what you want.
Is that what you want me to be?
- after all, the other day was one scene, the woods are full of one scene sensations. But you did it. With work and patience, you'll be a fine actress. If that's what you want to be.
You shouldn't have had any doubts.
I'll admit I was worried when Max called. I had my doubts.
Are you proud of me, Bill?
- little things here and there, it doesn't matter. You can be proud of yourself, you've got a right to be.
It means concentration of ambition, desire, and sacrifice such as no other profession demands... And I'll agree that the man or woman who accepts those terms can't be ordinary, can't be - just someone. To give so much for almost always so little...
Yes. Yes, it does.
Goodbye, Mr. Sampson.
Thanks for your help... good luck.
Of course not.
I think we'd like very much. Sure you won't mind?
I have a suggestion. There's really not much time left - I mean, you haven't had a minute alone yet, and - well, I could take care of everything here and meet you at the gate with the ticket... if you'd like.
You didn't have to tell me.
Also Addison deWitt.
I read George Jean Nathan every week.
Yeah. They keep you under drugs out there with armed guards...
So few come back...
It's only one picture deal.
But Hollywood. You mustn't stay there.
And I shot my mouth off. Nothing personal, junior, no offense... ... it's just that there's so much bushwah in this Ivory Green Room they call the Theatuh - sometimes it gets up around my chin...
I just asked a simple question.
The Theatuh, the Theatuh- - what book of rules says the Theater exists only within some ugly buildings crowded into one square mile of New York City? Or London, Paris or Vienna? Listen, junior. And learn. Want to know what the Theater is? A flea circus. Also opera. Also rodeos, carnivals, ballets, Indian tribal dances, Punch and Judy, a one-man band - all Theater. Wherever there's magic and make-believe and an audience - there's Theater. Donald Duck, Ibsen, and The Lone Ranger, Sarah Bernhardt, Poodles Hanneford, Lunt and Fontanne, Betty Grable, Rex and Wild, and Eleanora Duse. You don't understand them all, you don't like them all, why should you? The Theater's for everybody - you included, but not exclusively - so don't approve or disapprove. It may not be your Theater, but it's Theater of somebody, somewhere.
Then why? Why, if you're the best and most successful young director in the Theater-
Eighty percent of it will go for taxes.
Is it the money?
I don't have to. I want to.
Why you have to go out there.
Just wondered what?
I just wondered.
I told you a lie. We'll make it easily. Margo's got no more conception of time than a halibut.
You said forty-seven minutes. You'll never make it.
Eve. Eve Harrington.
Hello, what's your name?
They can always grab oranges off trees. This you can't do in Times Square...
Bill says actors out there eat just as infrequently as here-
A diamond collar, gold sleeves - you know, picture people...
What did you expect - live sables?
She's on her way. With half the men in the joint. It's only a fur coat...
But she just got here...
The bed looks like a dead animal act. Which one is sables?
I know. She just keeps hearin' her dead father play the banjo.
Margo does not play a lunatic, Birdie.
No thanks, Birdie.
Lemme fix you a drink.
Well, I certainly think it's odd he hasn't even come up...
I ain't dense. And he's been here twenty minutes.
Don't be dense. The party.
Late for what?
The only thing I ordered by mistake is the guests. They're domestic, too, and they don't care what they drink as long as it burns... where's Bill? He's late.
There was nothing he didn't know. There's a message from the bartender. Does Miss Channing know we ordered domestic gin by mistake?
That French ventriloquist taught you a lot, didn't he?
The caterer had to back for hors d'oeuvres- Voila.
You're not being funny, I could get actors for less. What about the food?
There's some loose characters dressed like maids and butlers. Who'd you call - the William Morris Agency?
My back's open. Did the extra help get here?
You all put together?
I'm sure that's very flattering, Birdie, and I'm sure there's nothing wrong with that!
I'll tell you how. Like - let's see - like she was studyin' you, like you were a play or a book or a set of blueprints. How you walk, talk, think, eat, sleep-
How do you mean that?
Well... let's say she thinks only about you, anyway...
She thinks only for me... ... doesn't she?
Like an agent with one client.
She's loyal and efficient-
Night an' day.
She works hard.
Now you want an argument.
Do you want an argument or an answer?
You don't like Eve, do you?
She's got two things to do - carry clothes an' press 'em wrong - an' just let anybody else muscle in...
But the wardrobe women have got one. And next to a tenor, a wardrobe woman is the touchiest thing in show business-
I haven't got a union. I'm slave labor.
Behind in your dues? How much?
If I may so bold as to say something - did you ever hear the word "union"?
Just because you can't even work a zipper. It was very thoughtful, Eve, and I appreciate it-
Adorable. We now got everything a dressing room needs except a basketball hoop.
I couldn't get into the girdle in two an' a half hours...
When we get home you're going to get into one of those girdles and act for two and half hours.
Something maybe grew a size bigger.
You bought the new girdles a size smaller. I can feel it.
See you home...
Kill the people. Got your key?
Imagine. All this admiration in just one room.
She, too, is a great admirer of yours.
You don't have to apologize for me! I'm sorry if I hurt your feelings. It's just my way of talkin'...
There are some human experiences, Birdie, that do not take place in a vaudeville house - and that even a fifth-rate vaudevillian should understand and respect! I want to apologize for Birdie's-
If I haven't, I'll find something till you're normal.
I'm sure you must have things to do in the bathroom, Birdie dear.
And this is my good friend and companion, Miss Birdie Coonan.
How do you do, my dear.
Well. I guess a real tight girdle help when you're playin' a lunatic.
The same size?
You need new girdles.
I never played Fort Sumter.
It was Fort Sumter they fired on-
You rest. I'll get it...
That's the door.
I don't care if I never get home.
It's after one now. You won't get home till all hours.
With changing and everything, a little over an hour.
How long does it take?
How'd you get all the way up here from Brooklyn?
I'll just pick up the broken glass.
The maid'll fix it in the morning.
That spilled drink is going to ruin your carper.
You're going to Hollywood - aren't you? From the trunks you're packing, you must be going to stay a long time.
Lots of actresses come from Brooklyn. Barbara Stanwyck, Susan Hayward - of course, they're just movie stars.
Erasmus Hall. That's in Brooklyn, isn't it?
Ours was one of the first. Erasmus Hall. I'm the president.
I've heard of them.
About how you live, what kind of clothes you wear - what kind of perfume and books - things like that. You know the Eve Harrington clubs - that they've got in most of the girls' high schools?
What report? To whom?
It was for my report.
You probably won't believe me.
You were just looking around...
I hid outside in the hall till the maid came to turn down your bed. She must've forgot something and when she went to get it, she left the door open. I sneaked in and hid till she finished. Then I just looked around - and pretty soon I was afraid somebody'd notice the lights were on so I turned them off - and then I guess, I fell asleep.
How did you get in here?
Please don't have me arrested, please! I didn't steal anything - you can search me!
I - I guess I fell asleep.
What are you doing here?
Who are you?
Thank you, Karen.
But not all of it - not that Lloyd and I are going to be married.
She knows enough not to be here.
I'd do much more - for a part that good.
A part in a play. You'd do all that - just for a part in a play.
That won't be necessary. Addison knows how Margo happen to miss that performance - how I happened to know she'd miss it in time to call him and notify every paper in town... ... it's quite a story. Addison could make quite a thing of it - imagine how snide and vicious he could get and still write nothing but the truth. I had a time persuading him... ... you'd better sit down. You look a bit wobbly. If I play "Cora," Addison will never tell what happened - in or out of print. A simple exchange of favors. And I'm so happy I can do something for you - at long last... Your friendship with Margo - your deep, close friendship - what would happen to it, do you think, if she knew the chap trick you'd played on her - for my benefit? And you and Lloyd - how long, even in the Theater, before people forgot what happened - and trusted you again? No... it would be so much easier on everyone concerned, if I were to play "Cora." And so much better theater, too...
Over my dead body...
Addison wants me to play it.
I don't think anything in the world could make me say that.
"Cora" is my part. You've got to tell Lloyd it's for me.
You talk just as Addison said you did.
It could have been - fifteen years ago. It's my part now.
After all you've said... don't you know the part was written for Margo?
If you told him so, he'd give me the part. He said he would.
You want to play "Cora." You want me to tell Lloyd I think you should play it.
Something most important you can do.
I think I know...
Give yourself time. Don't worry too much about what people think, you're very young and very talented... ... and, believe it or not, if there's anything I can do-
I wish I could believe that.
Yes, you will. You Theater people always do. Nothing is forever in the Theater. Love or hate, success or failure - whatever it is, it's here, it flares up and burns hot - and then it's gone.
I'll never get over it.
Eve. I - I don't think you meant to cause unhappiness. But you did. More to yourself, perhaps - as it turned out - than to anyone else...
I wish I'd never met him, I'd like him to be dead... I want my friends back.
He can help you.
He's not my friend. You were my friends...
Well. I think you're painting the picture a little darker than it is, really. If nothing else - and don't underestimate him - you have a powerful friend in Addison.
- an understudy's performance.
But the raves about your performance-
Some vague promises of a test, that's all - if a particular part should come along, one of those things-
Tell me. How did your lunch turn out - with the man from Hollywood?
I'm not crying.
Eve... don't cry.
You've really got a low opinion of me, haven't you? We'll I'll give you some pleasant news. I've been told off in no uncertain terms all over town. Miss Channing should be happy to hear that. To know how loyal her friends are - how much more loyal they are than she had a right to expect me to be...
Let's not get over-dramatic.
No! I don't expect you to believe anything. Except that the responsibility is mine. And the disgrace.
Do you expect me to believe that you didn't say any of those things - that they were all Addison?
In a way. You find yourself trying to say what you mean, but somehow the words change - and they become his words - and suddenly you're not saying what you mean, but what he means-
- and you felt just like that talking to Addison.
You know, I've always considered myself a very clever girl. Smart. Good head on my shoulders, that sort of thing, never the wrong word at the wrong time... but then, I'd never met Addison deWitt. I remember once I had a tooth pulled. They gave me some anaesthetic - I don't remember the name - and it affected me in a strange way. I heard myself saying things I wasn't even thinking... as if my mind were someplace outside of my body, and couldn't control what I did or said-
Why shouldn't you? Please sit down.
- and easy or not, I won't believe a word.
Oh, but there is-
There can't be very much-
I've got a lot to say. And none of it is easy.
Can't we sit down? Just for a minute...
I don't intend to be.
I don't expect you to be pleasant.
Don't get up. And don't act as if I were the queen mother.
I was wondering whether you'd come at all..
Nothing definite yet - it's just to have lunch.
They certainly don't waste much time.
We're having lunch with a movie talent scout.
Mostly relief that I managed to stagger through it at all...
Eve. I've heard the most wonderful things about your performance-
Don't bother, I can take it up myself...
May I have your coat?
No, Eve, I won't forget...
Karen... ... you won't forget, will you? What we talked about before?
Well - if she's got to pick on someone, I'd just as soon it was me.
Eve. I'm fond of Margo too. But I know Margo. And every now and then there is nothing I want to do so much as to kick her right square in the pants.
If I thought I'd offended her, of all people-
The reason is Margo and don't try to figure it out. Einstein couldn't.
But there must be some reason, something I've done without knowing...
You mustn't mind Margo too much, even if I do...
I seem to be forever thanking you for something, don't I?
I won't forget.
You won't forget it?
Then - would you talk to Mr. Fabian about it?
They'll do as they're told.
But Mr. Richards and Mr. Sampson-
I think she would cheer.
Do you think Miss Channing would approve?
No, dear. Margo must go on. As a matter of fact, I see no reason why you shouldn't be Margo's understudy...
The show must go on.
Don't worry too much about that. Margo just doesn't miss performances. If she can walk, crawl or roll - she plays.
I don't let myself think about it, even- - but I do know the part so well, and every bit of the staging, there'd be no need to break in a new girl- - but suppose I had to go on one night? To an audience that came to see Margo Channing. No, I couldn't possibly...
... you want to be Margo's new understudy.
Well... Miss Channing's affairs are in such good shape... there isn't enough to keep me as busy as I should be, really - not that I've ever considered anything that would take me away from her... but the other day - when I heard Mr. Fabian tell Miss Channing that her understudy was going to have a baby, and they'd have to replace her...
Nobody's done so much, Eve, you've got to stop thinking of yourself as one of the Hundred Neediest Cases... what is it?
Karen... ... isn't it awful, I'm about to ask you for another favor - after all you've already done.
Lloyd says Margo compensates for underplaying on the stage by overplaying reality... ... next to that sable, my new mink seems like an old bedjacket... ... you've done your share, Eve. You've worked wonders with Margo...
There should be a new word for happiness. Being here with Miss Channing has been - I just can't say, she's been so wonderful, done so much for me-
Tell me, Eve - how are things with you? Happy?
Discouraging, isn't it? Women with furs like that where it never gets cold...
Some Hollywood movie star, her plane got in late.
Now who's show up at this hour? It's time people went home - hold that coat up... ... whose is it?
I'd like that.
Not just that way. As a friend...
I'll be at the old stand, tomorrow matinee-
Good night, Eve. I hope I see you again soon-
I think I'd better. It's been - well, I can hardly find the words to say how it's been...
You're not going, are you?
It couldn't possibly interest you.
Eve... why don't you start at the beginning?
If I only knew how...
Hello, Miss Channing.
Not at all. Margo, this is Eve Harrington.
I thought you'd forgotten about me.
Eve. Eve Harrington.
You look just fine... ... by the way. What's your name?
But if I'd known... maybe some other time... I mean, looking like this.
There isn't another like you, there couldn't be-
No, I'd be imposing on her, I'd be just another tongue-tied gushing fan...
She's got to meet you-
I'm going to take you to Margo...
Standing room doesn't cost much. I manage.
You see the play? You've seen the play every performance? But, don't you find it - I mean apart from everything else - don't you find it expensive?
Oh, no. I see the play.
He'll agree with you. Tell me, what do you between the time Margo goes in and comes out? Just huddle in that doorway and wait?
He's the best.
Bill Sampson? He's - he's a director.
You're Margo Channing's best friend. You and your husband are always with her - and Mr. Sampson... what's he like?
To speak to just a playwright's wife? I'm the lowest form of celebrity...
I've seen you so often - it took every bit of courage I could raise-
Not at all.
I hope you don't mind my speaking to you...
Why should you be? After all, six nights a week - for weeks - of watching even Margo Channing enter and leave a theater-
Why should you think I wouldn't be?
So there you are. It seemed odd, suddenly, your not being there...
I was dreadful, Miss Channing, believe me - I have no right to be anyone's understudy, much less yours...
Back to Copacabana. But Eve. Margo, let me tell you about Eve-
I hope so, Mr. Richards. Good night...
It's been a real pleasure, Eve.
Farmers were poor in those days, that's what dad was - a farmer. I had to help out. So I quit school and I went to Milwaukee. I became a secretary. In a brewery. When you're a secretary in a brewery - it's pretty hard to make believe you're anything else. Everything is beer. It wasn't much fun, but it helped at home - and there was a Little Theater Group... like a drop of rain in the desert. That's where I met Eddie. He was a radio technician. We played 'Liliom' for three performances, I was awful - then the war came, and we got married. Eddie was in the air force - and they sent him to the South Pacific. You were with the O.W.I., weren't you Mr. Richards? That's what 'Who's Who' says... well, with Eddie gone, my life went back to beer. Except for a letter a week. One week Eddie wrote he had a leave coming up. I'd saved my money and vacation time. I went to San Francisco to meet him. Eddie wasn't there. They forwarded the telegram from Milwaukee - the one that came from Washington to say that Eddie wasn't coming at all. That Eddie was dead... ... so I figured I'd stay in San Francisco. i was alone, but couldn't go back without Eddie. I found a job. And his insurance helped... and there were theaters in San Francisco. And one night Margo Channing came to play in 'Remembrance'... and I went to see it. And - well - here I am...
Not at all...
I guess it started back home. Wisconsin, that is. There was just mum, and dad - and me. I was the only child, and I made believe a lot when I was a kid - I acted out all sorts of things... what they were isn't important. But somehow acting and make-believe began to fill up my life more and more, it got so that I couldn't tell the real from the unreal except that the unreal seemed more real to me... I'm talking a lot of gibberish, aren't I?
Well... it started with the play before this one...
Let's get back to this one. Have you really seen every performance? Why? I'm curious...
There was an item in the Times. i like the title. 'Footsteps on the Ceiling'.
How'd hear about it?
I'd like anything Miss Channing played...
Every performance? Then - am I safe in assuming you like it?
No, thank you. Yes. I've seen every performance.
How do you do, Mr. Richards.
Hello, Miss Harrington.
What a pity, all that fire and music being turned off...
... and if you'd come in the middle, I'd have stopped, I couldn't have gone on-
Well, if you'd been here to begin with, I wouldn't have dared to read at all...
Really, Eve? Why?
Miss Channing, I can't tell you how glad I am that you arrived so late.
How are you making out in Mr. Fabian's office? I don't want you working the child too hard, Max - just because you promised. As you see, I kept my promise, too...
Hello, Miss Channing.
Terribly sorry I'm late, lunch was long and I couldn't find a cab - where's Miss Caswell, shall we start? Oh, hello, Eve...
I had no idea you knew each other.
Good evening, Mr. deWitt.
Thank you, Eve. I'd like a Martini - very dry.
The hors d'oeuvres are here. Is there anything else I can do?
Some snowy night in front of the fire... in the meantime, while we're on the subject, will you check about the hors d'oeuvres? The caterer forgot them, the varnish wasn't dry or something...
I'd like to hear it.
I wouldn't like.
If you'd like.
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to-
Don't get up. And please stop acting as if I were the queen mother.
Mr. Sampson's birthday. I certainly wouldn't forget that. You'd never forgive me. As a matter of fact, I sent him a telegram myself...
Yes, I guess you were. It - it was very thoughtful of you, Eve.
Well, I was sure you'd want to, of course, being his birthday, and you've been so busy these past few days, and last night I meant to tell you before you went out with the Richards - and I guess I was asleep when you got home...
Yes, dear. You forgot all about it.
Oh, golly. And I forgot to tell you-
Eve... ... by any chance, did you place a call from me to Bill for midnight California time?
That's my job. See you at tea time...
It seems I can't think of a thing you haven't thought of...
- and those checks or whatever it is for the income tax man.
I've got it.
There's the script to go back to the Guild-
Oh, come now, as though you were an old lady... I'm on my way. Is there anything more you've thought of-?
Quite sure. I find it just a bit too - too "Seventeenish" for me...
I can imagine... you know, all it needed was some taking in here and letting out there - are you sure you won't want it yourself?
Very becoming. It looks better on you than it did on me.
Well - what do you think of my elegant new suit?
No trouble at all.
Don't bother. Mrs. Brown'll be along for it in a minute.
While you're cleaning up, I'll take this to the wardrobe mistress-
They are lovely. Aren't they lovely, Birdie?
The curtains. I made them myself.
Well, you've done so much... what's new?
You haven't noticed my latest bit of interior decorating...
When he gets too close, I'll spit in his eye.
During your second act scene with your father, Roger Ferraday's supposed to stay way upstage at the arch. He's been coming closer down every night...
Well, teacher's away and actors will be actors...
I mean the performance. Except for you, you'd think he'd never even directed it - it's disgraceful the way they change everything around...
You certainly can. Especially if you're me between now and tomorrow morning...
I must say you can certainly tell Mr. Sampson's been gone a month.
Performance number one thousand of this one - if I play it that long - will take place in a well-padded booby hatch...
I could watch you play that last scene a thousand times and cry every time-
What - again?
I won't be a minute.
Well - if I'm not in the way...
Stick around. Please. Tell you what - we'll put Stanislavsky on his plane, you and I, then go somewhere and talk.
The four of you must have so much to say to each other - with Mr. Sampson leaving...
No, don't go...
San Francisco. It was the last week. I went one night... the most important night in my life - until this one. Anyway... I found myself going the next night - and the next and the next. Every performance. Then, when the show went East - I went East.
Did you see it here in New York?
Not with you in them. Not by Mr. Richards...
There are other plays...
Well. If I didn't come to see the play, I wouldn't have anywhere else to go.
Of course it is.
Please, don't misunderstand me, Mr. Richards. I think that part of Miss Channing's greatness lies in her ability to choose the best plays... your new play is for Miss Channing, isn't it, Mr. Richards?
You'll be there, won't you.
Very classy stuff, lots of technique-
But not right away? First the business of fighting them off, chin up, stout fella...
Well... all right.
Karen, in all the years of our friendship, I have never let you go to the Ladies' Room alone. But now I must. I am busting to know what goes on in that feverish little brain waiting there...
The little witch must have had Indians runners out snatching critics out of bars, steam rooms and museums or wherever they hole up... well, she won't get away with it! Nor will Addison deWitt and his poison pen! If Equity or my lawyer can't or won't do anything about it, I will personally stuff that pathetic little lost lamb down Mr. deWitt's ugly throat...
Lloyd says it's a publicity release...
In this rat race, everybody's guilty till they're proved innocent! One of the differences between the Theater and civilization... ... what gets me is how all of those papers in town happened to catch that particular performance!
I can't believe Eve said those things!
It get better! "- About the understandable reluctance on the part of our entrenched First Ladies of the Stage to encourage, shall we say - younger - actresses; about Miss Harrington's own long and unsupported struggle for opportunity-"
I just can't believe it.
"... my hat which has, lo, these many seasons become more firmly rooted about my ears, is lifted to Miss Harrington. I am once more available for dancing in the streets and shouting from the housetops." ... I thought that one went out with Woollcott... Down here... here, listen to this- "... Miss Harrington had much to tell - and these columns shall report her faithfully - about the lamentable practice in our Theater of permitting, shall we say - mature - actresses to continue playing roles requiring a youth and vigor of which they retain but a dim memory-"
Don't give it another thought, one of destiny's many pranks. After all, you didn't personally drain the gasoline out of the tank...
This. I can't tell you how sorry I am!
Margo. Margo, I want you to know how sorry I am about this...
Let's not fumble for excuses, not here and now with my hair down. At best, let's say I've been oversensitive to... well, to the fact that she's so young - so feminine and helpless. To so many things I want to be for Bill... funny business, a woman's career. The things you drop on your way up the ladder, so you can move faster. You forget you'll need them again when you go back to being a woman. That's one career all females have in common - whether we like it or not - being a woman. Sooner or later we've all got to work at it, no matter what other careers we've had or wanted... and, in the last analysis, nothing is any good unless you can look up just before dinner or turns around in bed - and there he is. Without that, you're not woman. You're something with a French provincial office or a book full of clippings - but you're not a woman... ... slow curtain. The end.
About Eve. I've acted pretty disgracefully toward her, too.
Silly, isn't it? You'd think they'd fix it so people could just sit in a car and keep warm...
I don't suppose the heater runs when the motor doesn't?
Isn't that what they always say?
Not to you. Not to Bill.
Those years stretch as the years go on. I've seen it happen too often.
Margo. Bill is all of eight years younger than you.
Bill's in love with Margo Channing. He's fought with her, worked with her, loved her... but ten years from now - Margo Channing will have ceased to exist. And what's left will be... what?
Why should he - and why should you?
More than anything in this world, I love Bill. And I want Bill. I want him to want me. But me. Not Margo Channing. And if I can't tell they apart - how can he?
He's in love with you.
What about Bill?
What about Bill?
And what is that? Besides something spelled out in light bulbs, I mean. Besides something called temperament, which consists mostly of swooping about on a broomstick creaming at the top of my voice... infants behave the way I do, you know. They carry on and misbehave - they'd get drunk if they knew how - when they can't have what they want. When they feel unwanted and insecure - or unloved.
You're Margo. Just - Margo.
So many people - know me. I wish I did. I wish someone would tell be about me...
We're never deeply angry, we just get sore. The way you do. We know you too well...
Come to think of it, I haven't been very pleasant for weeks. For that, I'm truly sorry. More than any two people I know, I don't want you and Lloyd to be angry with me...
We've all seemed a little tense lately...
Karen. I haven't been pleasant this weekend.
I detest cheap sentiment.
It doesn't matter.
Do you want it on?
Be brave. He'll come back - with or without gas.
I just never think of Lloyd as anywhere but indoors and anything but sitting down.
It seems to me that walking, for most people, is not very dangerous.
He always looks so pathetic whenever he does anything physical-
Not many car either, not much chance of a lift...
None in sight, there aren't many along this back road...
Any houses or farms around where we can borrow gas?
Three or four miles...
How far to the station?
Roughly ten minutes.
How much time have we?
Peace and quit is for libraries.
Of all people you should know what it means to want some peace and quiet-
That little place just two hours form New York. It's on my list of things-I'll-never-understand. Like collecting shrunken Indian heads...
I'm so happy you're happy.
Margo, nothing you've ever done has made me as happy as your taking Eve in...
Please don't play governess, Karen, I haven't your unyielding good taste, I wish I'd gone to Radcliffe too but father wouldn't hear of it - he needed help at the notions counter... I'm being rude now, aren't I? OR should I say "ain't I"?
I was telling Margo and Lloyd about how often you'd seen the play...
Would you like a drink? It's right beside you...
I'm so sorry... Harrington. Won't you sit down?
Dear Birdie. Won't you sit down, Miss Worthington?
She's just outside the door.
Well... there's one indoors now. I've brought her back to see you.
They're nobody's fans! They're juvenile delinquents, mental detectives, they're nobody's audience, they never see a play or a movie, even - they're never indoors long enough!
They're your fans, your audience-
Autograph fiends! They're not people - those little beast who run in packs like coyotes-
Yes, it is! You're talented, famous, wealthy - people waiting around night after night just to see you, even in the wind and rain...
Ain't it the truth?
It's just that you get me so mad sometimes... of all the women in the world with nothing to complain about-
Relax, kid. It's only me and my big mouth...
I find these wisecracks increasingly less funny! 'Aged in Wood' happens to be a fine and distinguished play-
It's the tight girdle that does it.
Hi. "Well, now Mis' Channin', ah don't think you can rightly say we lost the wah, we was mo' stahved out, you might say - an' that's what ah don' unnerstand about all these plays about love-stahved Suth'n women - love is one thing we was nevah stahved for the South!"
Hi. Hello, darling-
Then tell me this isn't true! That your concern for your play and career is one thing - and that poor frightened hysterical girl another - and that your concern for her has nothing to do with either your play or your career!
Old wives' tales, born of envy and jealousy! And a phobia against truth!
Have you forgotten about Eve? What she is, what she's done?
- and for my feelings in particular! For my play, my career - and now for a frightened, hysterical girl on the eve of her first night in the Theater!
I'm a human being, I've got some!
I didn't think you would! It seems to me, Karen, that for some tine, now, you've been developing a deep unconcern for the feeling of human being in general-
Did Miss Harrington tell you to call Mr. Richards?
Who is it? What's it all about?
What's so funny?
You mean - all this time - she'd done nothing but apologize? What'd you say?
Nothing much. She apologized.
- well? What happened?
I have no possible interest in anything she'd have to say.
After all, maybe she just wants to apologize...
What are you going to wear?
Three days, that's for the bourgeois - I see a midnight elopement, waking up a village person...
Well of all-
You - for one. I told her you were set on Margo playing the part - and I certainly wouldn't make a change without your approval.
Darling, I didn't promise Eve anything. Just said I thought she'd be fine for the part, but there were some practical difficulties...
They'd die without each other.
I'm glad Bill's back.
Margo in the Cub Room. I couldn't be more surprised if she'd said Grant's Tomb.
Margo - and Bill - want us to meet them at the Cub Room tonight, after theater. For a bottle of wine.
The cynicism you refer to, I acquired the day I discovered I was different from little boys!
That bitter cynicism of yours is something you've acquired since you left Radcliffe!
On her knees, I have no doubt! Very touching, very Academy-of-Dramatic Arts!
All this fuss and hysteria because an impulsive kid got carried away by excitement and the conniving of a professional manure slinger named deWitt! She apologized, didn't she?
It strikes me that Eve's disloyalty and ingratitude must be contagious!
Now just a minute!
Margo Channing has not been exactly a compromise all these years, half the playwrights in the world would give their shirts for that particular compromise!
Now just a minute-
Lloyd Richards, you are not to consider giving that contemptible little worm the part of "Cora."
For once, to write something and have it realized completely. For once, not to compromise-
With gestures, of course.
No, I got the idea myself - while she was talking to me...
Eve would ask Abbott to give her Costello.
Eve did mention the play, you know. But just in passing - she's never ask to play a part like "Cora," she'd never have the nerve...
Now you're quoting Addison. Or Eve.
You've got to admit it would be a novelty.
Maybe get some younger actress for the part? Someone who'd look the part as well as play it?
If we could cast it properly, that is...
I'm beginning to catch up.
If - instead of waiting until next season to do 'Footsteps on the Ceiling', which is in pretty good shape - and if Margo can be talked into going on tour with 'Aged in Wood' - we could put 'Footsteps...' into production right away...
I'm trying hard to follow you.
What with taxes coming up - and since I'm a playwright and not an oil well operator - well, I've been thinking...
That's quite a change of subject.
You know, I've been going over our financial condition - if you'll pardon the expression...
I wonder why.
She wanted to explain about her interview, wanted to apologize to someone - and didn't dare face Margo...
That was a pity...
She's been to see me, as a matter of fact she left just before you came in - you just missed her...
Where'd you get all that information?
- it's Addison, from start to finish, it drips with his brand of venom... taking advantage of a kid like that, twisting her words, making her say what he wanted her to say-
Don't joke about such things.
What a way to die - trying to get an actress to the theater in time. Tell Max I want to be buried with royalties...
You'll break your neck on that ice.
I guess I didn't look. You know I don't pay attention to those things...
But it can't be! We can't be out of gas! I filled it myself yesterday! Wasn't it full when you drove to Brewster this morning?
Just a little skid, that's all. This road's like glass.
Lloyd, be careful...
Five-fifty-five. We'll be at the station in plenty of time...
I just don't want Margo to miss her train. As it is, she'll barely make the theater...
When you asked a minute ago it was five-forty-two. It is now five forty-three. When you ask a minute from no, it will be-
What time is it?
Well. We've spent weekends before with nobody talking... ... just be sure to lock up all blunt instruments and throwable objects...
We're driving out to the country tomorrow night. Just the four of us. Bill, Margo, you and I...
It's going to be a cozy weekend.
Margo. Margo's great. She knows it. That's the trouble. She can play Peck's Bad Boy all she wants, and who's to stop her? Who's to give her that boot in the rear she needs and deserves?
Margo hasn't done badly by it.
- everything a playwright first thinks of wanting to write about... until his play becomes a vehicle for Miss Channing...
- don't run out of adjectives, dear.
Of course she knew! For one thing, Addison told her how superbly Eve had read the part-! Karen, let me tell you about Eve. She's got everything - a born actress. Sensitive, understanding, young, exciting, vibrant-
It's just possible she didn't...
Then a childish, heavy-handed routine about not knowing Eve was her understudy-
That's on time for Margo.
And again and again! Two hours late for the audition, to begin with-
Up to here! That's where I've got it - up to here! Of all the star ridden, presumptuous, hysterical-
Lloyd, what happened...?
In a minute...
It's about time we did! It's about time Margo realized that what's attractive on stage need not necessarily be attractive off.
Now let's not get into a big hassle-
If you'd only see her, you're her whole life - you must have spotted her by now, she's always there...
That book is out of print, Karen, those days are gone. Fans no longer pull the carriage through the streets - they tear off clothes and steal wrist watches...
You can't put her out, I promised... Margo, you've got to see her, she worships you, it's like something out of a book-
The critics thought so, the audiences certainly think so - packed houses, tickets for months in advance - I can't see that either of Lloyd's last two plays have hurt you any!
- 'at's my loyal little woman.
How was the concert?
It means I've finally got a life to live! I don't have to play parts I'm too old for - just because I've got nothing to do with my nights! I know you've made plans. I'll make it up to you, believe me. I'll tour a year with this one, anything - only you do understand - don't you, Lloyd?
What's your being married got to do with it?
Now wait a minute, you're always so touchy about his plays, it isn't the part - it's a great part. And a fine play. But not for me anymore - not a foursquare, upright, downright, forthright married lady.
Well. I don't want to play "Cora."
I don't think I could be.
I mean really, deeply angry...
She is a louse.
You know, she probably means well, after all...
... and Bill. Especially Bill. Eve did that, too.
Lloyd, I want you to be big about this... the world is full of love tonight, no woman is safe...
Very discreet. A note right out in the open like that. Next time tell your lover to blow smoke rings - or tap a glass...
City Hall, that's for prize fighters, and reporters - I see a cathedral, a bishop, banks of flowers...
It's been quite a night. I understand that your understudy - Miss Harrington - has given her notice.
Thank you, Lloyd. Godspeed.
The audience will want its money refunded, believe me.
How fortunate that I have an understudy so ready, so willing and so able to go on.
It's not important whether you do. We are wearing long underwear.
I have no intention of having an accident!
Karen and I just don't want an accident-
It's about time the piano realized it has not written the concerto!
Usually at the point when she's got to rewrite and rethink them to keep the audience from leaving the theater!
I shall never understand the weird process by which a body with a voice suddenly fancies itself a mind! Just when exactly does an actress decide they're her words she's saying and her thoughts she's expressing?
Then you listened as if someone else had written you play - whom did you have in mind? Sherwood? Arthur Miller? Beaumont and Fletcher?
I never said it was!
Perfectly innocent! Man have been hanged for less! I'm lied to, attacked behind my back, accused of reading your silly dialogue inaccurately - as if it were Holy Gospel!
You have a genius for making barroom brawl out of a perfectly innocent misunderstanding at most!
Not mouse, never mouse! If anything - rat!
You knew when you came in that the audition was over, that Eve was your understudy! Playing that childish game of cat and mouse...
- in this case, apparently, as trustworthy as the World Almanac!
You've been talking to that venomous fishwife, Addison deWitt-
It's right to the point. Also that it must have sounded so new and fresh to you - so exciting to have the lines read as you wrote them!
That's beside the point.
I mean, among other things, that it must have been a revelation to have your twenty-four-year-old character played by twenty-four-year-old actress...
What do you mean?
To you, too?
She was a revelation...
You'd have been proud of her.
I'm sure you underestimate yourself, Eve. You always do. You were about to tell me about Eve...
It seems almost inconceivable that I haven't seen her backstage, but with so many people loitering around... well, well. So Eve is not working for Max after all- - Max you sly puss.
I thought you knew... She was put on over a week ago-
Eve? Eve, my understudy? But I had no idea...
She's your understudy.
Just one person. Isn't that so? You know what this is all about, don't you? It has very little to do with whether you should play "Cora" - it has everything to do with the fact that you've had another fight with Bill.
... as young as they want, you mean. And I'm not interested in whether thousands of people think I'm six or six hundred-
Week after week, to thousands of people, you're as young as you want...
Spoken like an author. Lloyd, I'm not twentyish. I am not thirtyish. Three months ago, I was forty years old. Forty. Four oh. That slipped out, I hadn't quite made up my mind to admit it. Now I feel as if I'd suddenly taken all my clothes off...
I know what I'm talking about, after all they're my plays...
Miss Channing is ageless. Spoken like a press agent.
Margo, you haven't got any age.
Don't be evasive.
How do you mean?
Don't you think it's about time it became important?
Twentyish. It isn't important.
"Cora." She's - still a girl of twenty?
The play? All right, I guess...
How's the new one coming?
When you do, let me in on it.
Not exactly. Sometimes, though, I wish I understood you better.
You disapprove of me when I'm like this, don't you?
Shucks. And my autograph book is at the cleaners.
Too many. And you've got a new guest. A movie star from Hollywood.
Who's left out there?
Up in the room.
Where is she?
There you are, both of you. Max, Karen has decided it's time to go.
What is he talking about?
The general atmosphere is very Macbethish. What has or is about to happen?
... Among so many quiet qualities.
I like that girl. That quality of quiet graciousness...
And you pose as a playwright. A situation pregnant with possibilities - and all you can think of is everybody to go to sleep...
How about calling it a night?
I doubt very much that you'd like her in 'The Hairy Ape'.
Would you, really? How sweet-
Within your time, buster. Lloyd, honey, be a playwright with guts. Write me one about a nice, normal woman who shoots her husband.
That was way back...
Honey chili had a point. You know, I can remember plays about women - even from the South - where it never even occurred to them whether they wanted to marry their fathers more than their brothers...
Go ahead, please...
We are ready with the call you placed for 12 midnight, California time, to Mr. William Sampson in Beverly Hills...
That's right, but I don't understand-
It this Templeton 89970? Miss Margo Channing?
Call, what call?
We are ready with your call to Beverly Hills...
My dear Horowitz. In the first place, I'm paying you union scale. Second, it's my piano. Third, if everybody doesn't like kind of dying on the vine, they can get off the vine and go home. "Liebestraum."
Look, Miss Channing... it's kind of depressing. If you don't mind my saying so, everybody's kind of dying on the vine...
No. You're just crazy about "Liebestraum."
Then this will be five. I suppose you think I'm too drunk to count.
But that was the fourth straight time.
Play it again.
I just played it.
Not until the last drugstore has sold its last pill!
I said I'm a dying man!
I didn't hear you.
Who am I to threaten? I'm a dying man.
Answer my question!
Are you breaking the contract?
Are you threatening me with legal action, Mr. Fabian?
This is for lawyers to talk about, this concerns a run-of-the-play contract, and this you can't rewrite or ad lib!
That's my Max.
I don't know if this would be a wise move...
Think of your health, Max - more time to relax out in the fresh air at a race track...
She'd be a great help - read scripts, interview people you have to see, get rid of the ones you don't have to... you'd be a man of leisure-
But what could she do?
You said yourself my inventory was in good shape - all of my merchandise put away. To keep her here with nothing to do - I'd be standing in her way... and you need her, Max.
Margo, I wouldn't think of taking that girl away from you...
You get quick action, don't you?
Give Eve Harrington job in you office.
All you got to do is name it.
Not at all. And you could do me a big favor, if you would-
This is real cooperation. I appreciate it.
Anything to help you out, Max.
I tell you what. Why don't I read with her?
A couple of weeks.
When's the audition?
I feel right now like there's one burning in me.
Well, if she can act, she might not be bad. She looks like she might burn down a plantation...
An audition for the part we're replacing. What's-her-name, your sister...
Miss Caswell? What?
The situation I'm in ain't the kind you can belch your way out. I made a promise...
Here you are, Maxie dear. One good burp and you'll be rid of that Miss Caswell...
I love you, Max. I really mean it. I love you. Come to the pantry.
Let the rest of the world beat their brains out for a buck. It's friends that count. And I got friends.
Poor Max. Heartburn? It's that Miss Caswell. I don't know why she doesn't give Addison heartburn.
Margo. You by any chance got bicarbonate of soda in the house?
I ain't gonna die. Not with a hit.
Supposed you dropped dead. What about your inventory?
How about me what?
Make it Bergdorf Goodman... and now everything is on its proper shelf, eh, Max? Done up in little ribbons. I could die right now and nobody'd be confused. How about you, Max?
So I guess you could say that we screwed up, but we weren't wrong.
I finally got through to Sloan--it was all a misunderstanding that we had: he would have told the Grand Jury about Haldeman, he was ready to, only nobody on the Grand Jury asked him the goddamn question.
What was the mistake? Do you think it's been rigged, all along the way, leading us on so they could slip it to us when it mattered? They couldn't have set us up better; after all these months our credibility's gone, you know what that means?
--We got twenty minutes to deadline--
I know a guy in the Justice Department who was around the Grand Jury.
--Deep Throat won't confirm--I never thought he was scared of anyone, but he's scared of Haldeman.
How many fucking sources they think we got?--
--and the FBI confirms--what more do you need?--
--Sloan told the Grand Jury--he answered everything they asked him-- that means there's a record somewhere--
--he said John Haldeman, not Bob Haldeman--
Maybe we are...
I wish we were investigating Attila the Hun.
Same as Magruder, I don't like it when they turn out to be human.
What's the matter?
It's nothing personal, though.
Well, we are trying to ruin his life.
What if I went up and introduced myself--think he'd slug me?
I think that's him.
--we're working on the last guy now and we're going all the way--that fifth man was Haldeman.
--Mitchell, Stans, Magruder, Kalmbach--
--That cash fund that financed the sabotaging of the Democrats--five guys had control--
We're inside the White House now.
He'll give us a sworn statement.
Could have won him a fraternity paddle with a White House seal. God knows it worked.
You think this was Clawsen's initiation?
It makes a crazy kind of sense-- remember that initiation rite they have at the White House? Each new member of the President's staff has to prove his guts by getting an enemy of Nixon.
You think we're being set up?--Christ, Deep Throat tells you last night that the letter came from inside the White House and up traipses Marilyn naming names.
You asking would I have been one of the President's men? I would have been.
What would you have done?
--'cause I only know four chords--
California, Illinois, Florida, New Hampshire--all the major Democratic primary states. Why does everything you play sound the same?
Segovia begged me for me secret but I said, "No, Andres, you'll have to try and make it without me."
Segretti criss-crossed the country over ten times in six months--and never stayed anyplace over a night or two. Switch to another station, huh? You're driving me crazy with that.
If he self-destructed.
--because a year before, the Republicans weren't ahead, not in the polls, Muskie was running ahead of Nixon then. Before he self- destructed.
So maybe Watergate wasn't really about Watergate--maybe that was just a piece--
Now the reason no one believed the Republicans is because there wasn't any reason, they were so far ahead. But Segretti was talking to these other lawyers a year before the break- in.
The burglary was done by Cubans or Democrats or Republicans.
Dwight Chapin, Nixon's appointments chief--he knew Segretti in school. Maybe I'm crazy, but this is the first time any of this starts to make sense. What were the three theories?
--Haldeman I know, who else?
That's what we've got to find out, but Segretti went to Southern Cal. and so did a bunch of Nixon men--
How high up, which Republicans?
--for the first time I'm beginning to feel like a fucking reporter-- Woodward, I got a tip. A guy called me up with a tip-- --someone named Donald Segretti contacted a bunch of lawyers and asked them if they'd like to go to work with him screwing up the Democrats, dirty tricks, shit like that. The FBI knows about Segretti-- Howard Hunt made a bunch of phone calls to him--they interrogated him, but on account of Segretti wasn't involved with the break-in, they didn't follow through. But Segretti did a lot of traveling--he called these lawyers from different places, and he told them the Republicans knew what he was doing.
--I haven't said anything--
--I want you to shut up and listen to me--
Then he's got an ax. Call him anyway.
--almost every source we've used has been Republican, this guy's a card- carrying Democrat.
--has he got an ax?--
--I know a lawyer at Justice--
--shit, who do we know?--
--if we could name the guys got the reports, we'd be ahead again--
--I know, I know--
--we gotta top the Times--
--just that a lot of reports were sent to CREEP, but he doesn't name who, not here anyway--
--the lookout in the Motor Inn?-- --he say anything we don't know?--
--The L.A. Times has a huge interview with Baldwin--
We'd like to wait til we have all five before we print it.
Look--five men controlled that slush fund as CREEP--three of them we've got, Mitchell, Stans, Magruder, and we're pretty sure of Kalmbach.
--there had to be a White House overseer--
Nothing--I just found out that Jeb Magruder from CREEP is a bigger bike freak than I am. I never like it when the other guy's human...
Think Sloan's back? What's wrong?
And I'll just shitkick in my usual way.
You want me to be the bastard.
He's another Ivy Leaguer so he'll probably expect you to be understanding--might surprise him if you're not.
You mean, who's going to play the mean M.P. and who's going to be the nice one? Whichever.
How do you want to handle Sloan?
That happens to people. OK, go on.
--she was really paranoid, the bookkeeper.
It goes very high--we've got to find out where--
Then tomorrow's grand jury indictments will just be bullshit.
--we've got to find out who the five guys are--the five with access to the slush fund--they were aware of the break-in.
Go on, go on--
I couldn't believe what she told me. Eight cups of coffee worth.
You voted for him.
Did he just say what I think he said?
Who'd you vote for?
And I'm a Republican.
I hate both parties.
We appreciate your position--really.
--you believe in the President, you wouldn't ever want to do anything disloyal.
We understand your problem--
It's safe, try it, you'll see.
We never reveal our sources, which is why you can talk to us.
I just wish we knew when someone would talk to us, that's all.
And that something's got to be more than just Hunt, Liddy, and the five burglars--those indictments are gonna be bullshit when they come down. What else do we know?
We know there's got to be something or they wouldn't be so panicked.
Anything you've got.
Facts or theory?
It's not us, they were scared before we got there. What do we know?
I never scared anyone before.
This is terrific work, if you like rejection.
My first day as a copy boy I was sixteen and wearing my only grown-up suit--it was cream colored. At 2:30 the head copy boy comes running up to me and says, "My God, haven't you washed the carbon paper yet? If it's not washed by three, it'll never by dry for tomorrow." And I said, "Am I supposed to do that?" and he said, "Absolutely, it's crucial." So I run around and grab all the carbon paper from all the desks and take it to the men's room. I'm standing there washing it and it's splashing all over me and the editor comes in to take a leak, and he says, "What the fuck do you think you're doing?" And I said, "It's 2:30. I'm washing the carbon paper." Just wanted you to know I've done dumber things than get us lost, that's all.
You're not a kid anymore.
I don't get it... this really was my turf...
Alphabetically, on the CREEP phone list, Miss Helen Abbott of South George Street.
It was there. I just don't get it; a CREEP secretary being scared, that's one thing. But what does the wife of one of the most powerful men in America have to be afraid of...?
Were you eyebrow reading?
--she was panicked, Carl--every time I mentioned Watergate, you could tell.
For the paper, no; for us, plenty. I waited a long time and finally this big guy--I guess a bodyguard-- he left and I knocked and she remembered me, we talked awhile.
See her? Get anything?
--you do?--with access to records?
Christ, and I even know somebody at the phone company--
Why didn't we get that?
---fifteen or more phone calls from the burglars in Miami to Gordon Liddy at CREEP--
--fifteen phone calls--
The fucking New York Times.
And you haven't called him?--
I met a Presidential aide once at a social occasion.
That was fun. What now?
About the past year.
July of '71.
We need a sympathetic face.
You think they are confidential? I don't know anything about how this town works, I haven't lived here a year yet.
It makes sense; Hunt worked for the C.I.A. and the White House was paranoid about Teddy Kennedy.
--a spy, you mean?
Maybe a political operative of some sort--
--Hunt doesn't seem like your ordinary consultant.
--what do you think?--
I lived here all my life, I got a million contacts, but they're all bus boys and bellhops.
What do you think he meant, this particular incident? Were there others? How would we find out? You know anyone important?
Right. Nixon didn't get where he got by being dumb-- --listen, that was a Watergate question--
What, though? It can't be the Republicans--he'd never allow something as stupid as this, not when he's gonna slaughter McGovern anyway.
And McCord was carrying an application for college press credentials for the Democratic convention. The Times has got to be full of it-- it can't be crazy Cubans.
Well, Barker tried to get blueprints of the Miami Convention Center and the air-conditioning system.
--I'm not interested in theory. What do we know? For example, Hunt's disappeared.
Let me lay a little theory on you--
All right, what do we know?
I was sure trying.
Forget it, the main thing-- --did you call me a failure?
It's OK; I'm sorry I called you a failure.
You heard? They put us both on the break-in thing. Simons liked the way we worked together. Listen, I'm sorry I said your story was bullshit.
Fuck you, Carl.
Mainly it has to do with your choice of words.
What is it about my writing that's so rotten?
--read 'em both and you'll see--
--I'm smart enough to know my story was solid--
--they're all the same, all those Ivy League places--they teach you about striped ties and suddenly you're smart--
--Bradlee went to Harvard--
--you only got the job because both you and Bradlee went to Yale--
--and you've had some fucking meteoric rise, that's for sure--by the time you turn forty you might be the head of the Montana bureau--
--what have you been here, nine months?--I been in this business since I was sixteen--
--I have to stand here and listen to the staff correspondent from Virginia?--
--it was bullshit the way it was--
--it was fine the way it was--
--I sure couldn't hurt it, could I?--
What the hell were you doing rewriting my story--
Morning or night?
--what time is it?
Sir, I'd like to ask you a few--
--all that crap, you're putting it in the paper? It's all been denied. You tell your publisher--tell Katie Graham she's gonna get her tit caught in a big fat wringer if that's published. Good Christ! That's the most sickening thing I ever heard.
--to become President Nixon's campaign manager on March 1, Mitchell personally approved withdrawals from the fund--
--almost a year before he left the Justice Department--
--according to sources involved in the Watergate investigation. Beginning in the spring of 1971--
--fund that was used to gather information against the Democrats--
John N. Mitchell, while serving as US Attorney General, personally controlled a secret cash fund that--
What does it say?
I never could figure just who this Dahlberg was. Think it might be anything?
--yeah, that was in The Times this morning.
The rest is Barker's bank records. It's mostly the eighty-nine thousand in Mexican cashier's checks--
The telephone calls... we know about that.
I'll never get out of here in time.
You want Barker's phone stuff or his money stuff?
I'm on deadline.
Listen, I've got a dinner--can't we do this tomorrow?
Look, you've been jerking my chain all day. If there's some reason you can't talk to me--like the fact that you've already leaked everything to The New York Times--just say so.
Good. Just tell him I was here, that I'm sorry I missed him--
Well of course.
Mr. Dardis does call in every so often?
He is not in the car. Sorry.
Could you reach Mr. Dardis by car radio?
I told you, he had to go out on a case.
I called him from Washington. He's the one who asked me to be here at eleven in the morning.
And you will. But not now.
I'd really like to see Mr. Dardis.
I'm so glad.
Hi, it's me. I'm still here.
Sure. I remember seeing a book about Chappaquiddick on his desk and he was always getting material out of the White House Library and the Library of Congress and--
Oh, the scuttlebutt for awhile was he was investigating Kennedy--
Any idea what he did?
Sure. Him I liked, he was a very nice person. Secretive too, traveled all over, but a decent man.
Sorry. Now if it was Hunt you were interested in--
At USC, you had a word the this-- screwing up the opposition you all did it at college and called it ratfucking. Ever wonder if Nixon might turn out to be the biggest ratfucker of them all?
Can't help you.
It gets interesting if it was Haldeman, because our word is that when Chapin says something, he's gotten the OK from Haldeman, and when Haldeman says something, he's gotten the OK from the President.
I don't know anything about Haldeman, except, Dwight's frightened of him-- everybody's frightened of him--Christ, I wish I'd never gotten messed around with this--all I wanna do is sit in the sun; sit, swim, see some girls.
On the orders of Haldeman?
Sure--off the record.
Chapin did contact you then?
None of it was my idea, Carl--I didn't go looking for the job.
When you guys print it in the paper, then I'll know. I'm a lawyer, and I'll probably go to jail, and be disbarred, and what did I do that was so awful?
But you know who did.
You wrote the Canuck letter--the one where you claimed Muskie slurred the Canadians.
Sometimes it got up to a quarter maybe-- --off the record.
During the Florida primary, you wrote a letter on Muskie stationery saying Scoop Jackson had a bastard child. You wrote another that said Hubert Humphrey was out with call girls.
Oh, maybe nickel and dime stuff.
Tell that to Muskie.
I didn't do anything wrong.
Do you feel much about the things you did?
When did he hire you?
I know where Dwight works.
By "they" you mean the White House, don't you? Your buddy from USC, Dwight Chapin-- he works for the White House.
By "they" you mean...?
They never told me anything except my own role--I had to find out the rest in the papers.
Listen--we know you're involved in this--we're going to get the story, why not help?
I've got a lot of energy.
According to what we've been able to verify, you've been busy.
Mind if I try?
I'm Carl Bernstein. My paper sent me out to see if I couldn't persuade you to go on the record.
--he was going to go into law practice with Segretti.
We've just been talking to Young--
--you got more than one source?--
You're the fella who forgot he rented a Hertz car, do I have to tell you they didn't forget to send us the bill?
Down to Miami and back--how much damage can I do?
--"I think it might be helpful if you'd send me to Toronto." That was your spiel then. "The Lifestyles of Deserters." I'm still waiting for it.
--that was awhile ago--
I'm the one sent you to Toronto, Bernstein--
I think it might be helpful if you'd send me to Miami.
Harry, I just talked to a Miami investigator about Barker--
--what about you?--
--Bernstein, are you sure on this story?
I could care less about where it happened; what happened is what counts. Put him on. Ken, I'm sorry, it was Goddamn Beirut and they were having a crisis, what's up, kid? Slow down, Ken, you sound frazzled. A wife and a family and a cat and a dog, right, Ken. Ken, I would never print that you were in Marilyn's apartment at night-- unless, of course, you force me to.
--if he did it or just said he did it, God knows.
--it makes the break-in real--it's a major goddamn story-- --I'm not going to kick ass over this, but I'd like you to know I hate getting beat, I just hate it-- don't forget that I hate it--
--there's nothing new in it--
--it would have been nice to have had this, I sure would have liked to have had this--
I thought you guys were supposed to be working on this story-- --you think I like being aced out?
If they ever start calling us goddamn liars-- --it's time to start circling the wagons.
What's a real denial?
--and we got a guy in Justice--
--goddamnit, when's somebody gonna go on the record on this story--
Nobody's perfect. I'm glad you're out of it, Hannah-- you're a terrific reporter and I turned you into a bookkeeper.
You're a sex junkie, you know that, Carl?
There's always a later plane.
I thought you had to get to Miami.
It's right under that pile.
Give me your checkbook then.
You're two months behind--you got enough to cover?
Five hundred; six maybe.
Lot of pressure at the Star. Carl, when we got married, you were four thousand dollars in debt; when we split, you were solvent. That may prove to be the outstanding single achievement of my life, and now look at this. How much did the damn bike cost?
Hey... very tense.
Carl, it's a jungle. I suggest you either pay this immediately or lay in a large supply of candles. You'd give a stranger the shirt off your back--except it wouldn't be paid for.
Oh, they're here. I'm keeping much better records now, Hannah. See?
Where are your bills, Carl?
Hannah, I never would have bothered you but I'm off to Miami and they're gonna take away my ten speed unless I get it straightened out fast.
We're a long way from high school, Carl... ...and I'm scared.
I don't know what they'd do to me.
If you don't like it down there, why don't you quit?
You don't believe me? Well, I was working the weekend of the break-in and my God, all the executives were running around like crazy--you had to practically wait in line to use the shredding machine--and when the FBI came to investigate, they never even asked me about it.
This girlfriend of mine at the Committee, the other day she went back to the D.A. to tell the things the FBI didn't ask her. That night, her boss, he knew what she'd done. They control everything; that's how they know it all.
--you don't really think you're being followed?
Anyplace really public, they'd know about it--they know everything at the Committee, Carl--
This is practically a high school reunion for us, Jane--I would have sprung for a classier place.
Think Sloan's being set up as a fall guy for John Mitchell? Sometimes it looks that way.
It was all so crazy--the day after the break-in he gave us a speech, bouncing up and down on his heels in that loony way of his--Gordon told us not to let Jim McCord ruin everything--don't let one bad apple spoil the barrel, he said. You just know that when Gordon Liddy's calling someone a bad apple, something's wrong somewhere. ...It's all so rotten... and getting worse... and all I care about is Hugh Sloan. His wife was going to leave him if he didn't stand up and do what was right. And he quit. He quit because he saw it and didn't want any part of it.
Gordon Liddy, you mean?
--omigod, there was so much of it, six million came in one two-day period-- six million cash, we couldn't find enough places to put it. I thought it was all legal, I guess I did, til after the break-in, when I remembered Gordon got so much of it.
It's awfully hot-- --and you haven't finished telling me about the money--
Sloan knew which five, didn't he?
There were a group of them--I think five, I don't know their names.
Who were they?
The ones who could disburse the money.
I can't be positive that it was used for the break-in but people sure are worried.
Could buy a lot of steaks, 350,000 dollars.
A lot of it was. I just thought it was sort of an all-purpose political fund--you know, for taking fat cats to dinner, things like that.
--it was all in hundreds, wasn't it?
There are too many people watching me--they know I know a lot--
It's obvious you want to talk to someone--well, I'm someone.
...No... never in so many words...
I was just curious--you don't do it well, so I wondered. Have you been threatened, if you told the truth, is that it?
--right, right, I've got to go. Why did you lie just then?
One minute but then--
I never worked for Sloan or Stans.
You were Hugh Sloan's bookkeeper when he worked for Maurice Stans at Finance, and we were sort of wondering, did you go work for Stans immediately after Sloan quit or was there a time lapse?
I'm relaxed--light your cigarette.
We don't tell anyone that. Which is why you can talk to us. And if we can't verify what you say someplace else, we don't print it. That's another reason you can relax.
All those articles you people write-- where do you find that stuff?
But I want you to know that I understand why you're afraid--a lot of good people down there at the Committee are afraid. I'm really sorry for what you're being put through.
Just let me get a match.
You've really got to go.
Irwin? I really feel bad, doing something like this--you know that, don't you?
A Miami D.A. The guy doing the investigating is named Martin Dardis.
It was accurate, but I can't get a fuller listing for you--all Barker's phone records have been subpoenaed.
Just tell me about the goddamn article.
And that makes anything you do OK, is that it?
Something maybe big.
My big civil rights buddy-- --boy, if John Mitchell was after your phone records, would you be screaming. What're you onto?
No games, Irwin; give.
What do you want to know?
So tell me about the Times article.
'Cause I'm not calling out from the phone company anymore-- --I think the place is bugged.
Why couldn't you have just dialed me from the office, Irwin?
--let me put it this way: I'd have no problem if you did.
--if we wrote a story that said Haldeman controlled the fund?--
I'm not your source on that.
--that leaves Haldeman, period.
--it's gotta be Haldeman--someone from the White House had to be involved--
--I'm not your source on that--
--my wife just had the baby, my in- laws are arriving, I'm trying to get the house in some kind of shape.
--this'll only take one second--
I really can't talk now--
We're moving. I've been looking for a job but it's been... hard. My name's been in the papers too much. Sometimes I wonder if reporters understand how much pain they can inflict in just one sentence. I'm not thinking of myself. But my wife, my parents, it's been very rough on them.
What happens when the baby comes?
Routine--I'd just call John Mitchell over at the Justice Department and he'd say "go ahead, give out the money."
Ordinarily, though, what was the procedure?
Then Barker withdrew the 25 thousand in hundred dollar bills and gave it back to Liddy who gave it back to me and I put it in the office safe which was crammed.
Kalmbach--Nixon's personal lawyer.
I will not talk about the other two.
But they both worked at the White House?
Well, they sure didn't ask us to come forward and tell the truth.
To cover up?
We were never told flat out "Don't talk." But the message was clear.
Because people at the Committee were told to lie to the prosecutors?
That's another of the things I'm not so sure of.
Do you think the truth will come out at the trial?
Try and understand this. I'm a decent Republican. I believe in Richard Nixon. I worked in the White House four years--so did my wife. What happened on June 17 I don't think the President knew anything about. Some of his men I'm not so sure of.
--they're worse. That's why I quit.
--then again, maybe things are even worse than we've written--
My non-denial denial.
--you double-checked both sources?--
--well shit, we oughtta be tense-- we're about to accuse Mr. Haldeman who only happens to be the second most important man in America of conducting a criminal conspiracy from inside the White House-- --it would be nice if we were right--
--Christ, I wish I knew if we should print this--
--I don't know, I don't know, it feels thin--
--all non-denial denials--we're dirty guys and they doubt we were ever virgins but they don't say the story is inaccurate.
Same kind of crap--
And we'll all have to go to work for a living.
Then it's our asses, isn't it?
The FBI thinks it's possible--the Democrats need a campaign issue, corruption's always a good one. Get off the story, Ben--or put some people on McGovern's finances; fair is fair, even in our business.
You saying the Democrats bugged themselves?
Look--why would the Republicans do it? --my God, McGovern is self- destructing before our eyes--just like Muskie did, Humphrey, the bunch of 'em. Why would the burglars have put the tape around the door instead of up and down unless they wanted to get caught? Why did they take a walkie- talkie and then turn it off, unless they wanted to get caught? Why would they use McCord--the only direct contact to the Republicans?
Ben, Jesus, there are over two thousand reporters in this town, are there five on Watergate? Where did we suddenly get all this wisdom?
It will, it just hasn't bottomed out yet, give it time.
It's not that we're using unnamed sources that bothers me, or that everything we print the White House denies, or that almost no other papers are reprinting our stuff.
I don't think either Metropolitan or National should cover the story. I don't think we should cover the story, period.
Mitchell started the cover-up early, everyone is involved in the cover- up, all the way to the top. The whole U.S. intelligence community is mixed in with the covert activities. The extent of it is incredible. And people's lives are in danger, maybe including ours.
Anything else from Mr. Throat?
We can't talk inside either?
--I'm not sure, it still feels thin--
--he went to her apartment and he told her--
--what do you think?--
--his dialing finger must be falling off--
I got Clawsen on hold--
OK. You're about to write a story that says that the former Attorney General-- the man who represented law in America-- is a crook. Just be right, huh?
--I saw him. He verifies.
He approved the payments to Liddy while he was still Attorney General--
This is a daily paper, we'll explain it tomorrow. You're certain on Mitchell?
Is he on the level of Assistant to the President or not?
I don't know titles.
Just tell me his title.
You asking me to disclose my source?
I was told by this guy at the White House that Hunt was investigating Teddy Kennedy.
You don't mind getting on people's nerves, do you?
I have nothing more to say.
Are you implying you don't believe me?
It was really nice of you to come, since you'd only met him once.
Barker's wife called me at three this morning; her husband apparently had told her to call if he hadn't called her by then.
A Miami social occasion? Mr. Rafferty told me the Cubans were from Miami.
--I met one of the defendants, Mr. Barker, at a social occasion once-- --I have nothing more to say.
You're a lawyer and you're here--
They are not my clients.
Your clients were arrested with a walkie-talkie; they didn't need that to talk among themselves.
There is no reason to assume other people were involved.
Did you know to come because one of the other men involved in the break- in called you?
Well, they never would have been assigned if anyone had known the burglars had arranged for their own counsel. And that could only mean the burglars didn't arrange for their own counsel--they never even made a phone call. So if they didn't ask for you to be here, how did you know to come?
Probably you're right, but a little while ago, I was talking to a couple of lawyers who'd been assigned to represent the burglars.
I assure you, there's nothing mysterious involved.
What I don't understand is how you got here.
--you have nothing more to say, I understand that.
Look, I told you inside--
Mr. Rafferty was very helpful. Four Cuban-Americans and this other man, James McCord.
Clearly, I am here, but only as an individual, I'm not the attorney of record. Mr. Rafferty has that position. Whatever you want, you'll have to get from him, I have nothing more to say.
Douglas Caddy, the attorney of record, when questioned about his presence in the courtroom, denied he was in the courtroom, "I'm not here," Mr. Caddy said.
--I'm not here.
Mr. Caddy? My name's Bob Woodward, I'm from the Post and I wanted to ask about how you happened to come on this case--
--I've completely forgotten where it was, except I know it wasn't her apartment.
Well, was it in a bar, her apartment, some restaurant--
Where? What do you mean, where?
Sorry, Ken; listen, one last thing: where did your talk with Berger happen?
That's a bullshit question, that's a question straight out of Wichita, Kansas.
She's an awfully good reporter--I can't remember her getting too much wrong before, can you?
Absolutely--Marilyn's gotten it totally wrong--
You claiming it was all a misunderstanding, Ken?
That checks out with our finding, thank you, Mr. Dahlberg.
I don't know; I really don't. The last time I saw it was when I was in Washington. I gave it to the Finance department of the Committee to Re- Elect the President. How it got to that burglar, your guess is as good as mine.
I see. And how do you think it reached Miami?
That twenty-five thousand dollars is money I collected for Nixon in this year's campaign.
I'm a proper citizen, I'm a decent man, I don't do anything that isn't decent or proper. I know I shouldn't tell you this...
...you're definitely doing a story...?
The twenty-five thousand dollar one. The one with your name on it. In Bernard Barker's Florida account. Bernard Barker, the Watergate burglar--
--this should take only a minute, Mr. Dahlberg, but we're doing a follow- up on the break-in-- --and I was kind of curious about your check.
You'll have to find that out, won't you?--
We know that--and if we were wrong, we're resigning--were we wrong?
--you've done worse than let Haldeman slip away, you've got people feeling sorry for him--I didn't think that was possible. A conspiracy like this-- the rope has to tighten slowly around everyone's neck. You build from the outer edges and you go step by step. If you shoot too high and miss, then everybody feels more secure. You've put the investigation back months.
--I know, I know, the pressure's off the White House and it's all back on the Post--
I was being cautious. You can safely say more then fifty...
Fifty ratfuckers directed by the White House to destroy the Democrats?
Yes, yes, everything. There were over fifty people employed by the White House and CREEP to ratfuck-- some of what they did is beyond belief.
And Justice and FBI know all this?
Nationwide--my God, they were frightened of Muskie and look who got destroyed--they wanted to run against McGovern, and look who they're running against. They bugged, they followed people, false press leaks, fake letters, they canceled Democratic campaign rallies, they investigated Democratic private lives, they planted spies, stole documents, on and on-- don't tell me you think this was all the work of little Don Segretti.
--don't you miss the grand scheme too.
--the Canuck letter--was that a White House operation--
Follow every lead--every lead goes somewhere--
There were more then.
--don't concentrate on Segretti or you'll miss the overall scheme too.
Talk about Segretti--
Total manipulation. I suppose you could say they wanted to subvert the Constitution, but they don't think along philosophical lines.
Why did they do all this for Chrissakes?--what were they after?
You get nothing from me about Haldeman?
Of course--my God, you think something this big just happens? The break-in and the cover up, of course Mitchell knew, but no more than Ehrlichman.
Mitchell knew then.
Someone with authority I'd imagine, wouldn't you? Don't you know what you're onto? Come on.
Why didn't they?--who told them not to?
They know, but they focused on the burglary--if it didn't deal with the break-in, they didn't pursue it.
Do Justice and the FBI know what we know, and why the hell haven't they done anything about it?
I hope you noticed how coolly I behaved under the threat of discovery.
Did you change cabs? It didn't work, something moved there--
The slush fund at CREEP financed the ratfucking, we've almost got that nailed down, so--
You'll have to find that out, won't you.
Who?--be specific. How high up?
Yes, the little ratfuckers are now running our government.
I know what it means--Segretti wouldn't go on the record, but if he would, we know he'd implicate Chapin. And that would put us inside the White House.
In my day, it was simply called the double cross. I believe the CIA refers to it as Mindfuck. In our context, it simply means infiltration of the Democrats.
My turn to keep you waiting. What's the topic for tonight?
Talk? Once, at a gathering, he put his hand over a candle. And he kept it there. He kept it right in the flame until his flesh seared. A woman who was watching asked, "What's the trick?" And he replied. "The trick is not minding."
Liddy--you think there's a chance he'll talk?
What I know, you'll have to find out on your own.
What's the whole thing about--do you know?
--melodramatic? Things are past that--remember, these are men with switchblade mentalities who run the world as if it were Dodge City.
I did everything you said, but it all seemed--
You changed cabs? You're sure no one followed you?
This man Gordon Liddy--he's going to be tried along with Hunt and the five burglars--we know he knows a lot, we just don't know what.
Follow the money. Always follow the money.
John Mitchell resigned as head of CREEP to spend more time with his family. That doesn't exactly have the ring of truth. Howard Hunt's been found--there was talk that his lawyer had 25 thousand in cash in a paper bag.
Because the press stinks too--history on the run, that's all you're interested in. You come up with anything?
If you don't like them, why won't you be more concrete with me?
Then there must be something, mustn't there. Look, forget the myths the media's created about the White House-- the truth is, these are not very bright guys, and things got out of hand.
I don't know maybe sixteen, eighteen hours a day--we've got sources at Justice, the FBI, but it's still drying up.
You thought I'd help out on specifics? I'll confirm what you get, try to keep you on the right track, but that's all. Are you guys really working? How much?
Nothing, that's the problem--the story's gone underground.
I saw the flag signal--what's up?
I was just kind of wondering why your name and phone number were in the address books of two of the men arrested at Watergate?
--yes, yes, what is it?
Hi, I'm Bob Woodward of the Post and--
Howard Hunt here.
Hello, I'm Bob Woodward of the Washing Post and... Mullen and Company Public Relations? Could you tell me when you expect Mr. Hunt? He is?
...Central... Intelligence... Agency...
Where in government?
Government. Recently retired.
And what is your occupation, Mr. McCord?
Will you step forward, sir.
Your name, please.
Nobody ever had too much.
We're going to need lots of good luck, aren't we?
I really want to know.
I would, if you really ever wanted to know.
You've never told anyone who he is? But you'd have to tell me if I asked you. Tell me.
But it's possible.
I couldn't say.
And the underground garage one. Would I know him?
Some Justice Department lawyers and an FBI man, and some people from the Committee to Re-Elect, yes ma'am.
Never? Please don't tell me never. Ben says you've found some wonderful sources.
It may never come out.
When will you be, do you think?-- when are we going to know it all?
Are you sure?
I think so.
You know, the paper was my father's and my husband's when they were alive and I was thinking back a year or two ago when Ben called me and said he wanted to publish the Pentagon Papers the next day. The Times had already been stopped from publishing anymore of them and all my legal counsel said "don't, don't" and I was frightened but I knew if I said no, I'd lose the whole fifth floor. So we published, and that night, after I'd told Ben to go ahead, I woke up in the darkness and I thought, "Oh my Lord, what am I doing to this newspaper?" I woke up again last night with that same question. Are we right on this story?
I'm so glad you could come, Mr.--
--well, what if your boys get it wrong--
--absolutely--and that's all they do, sit sit sit--every once in a while, they call up a Senator, some reporting--
--well, I've got some pretty experienced fellas sitting around, wouldn't you say so?--
Ask him what he's really saying--he means take the story away from Woodstein and give it to his people at the National Desk--
--this White House guy, a good one, a pro, came up and asked what is this Watergate compulsion with you guys and I said, well, we think it's important and he said, if it's so goddamn important, who the hell are Woodward and Bernstein?
--correction--when you were drinking your lunch at the bar of the Sans Souci--
--quit equivocating, say what you mean-- --our story got Government Accounting to start an audit on CREEP's finances--
--nobody gives a shit about the Dahlberg repercussions--
--you are ignoring the importance of the Dahlberg repercussions--
--who you got?--
I think we got a White House consultant linked to the bugging.
I never asked them about Watergate. I only said what were Hunt's duties at the White House. They volunteered that he was innocent when nobody asked was he guilty.
Hunt is Colson's man-- --that's Charles Colson, Nixon's special counsel-- --they both went to Brown University-- --Hunt worked for the C.I.A. till '70, and this is on deep background, the FBI thinks he's involved with the break-in.
Whaddya got, whaddya got?
Just that on his office wall there's a cartoon with a caption reading, "When you've got them by the balls, their hearts and minds will follow."
Thanks, Harry. Know anything about Colson?
The second most powerful man is Robert Haldeman. Just below him are a trio: Mr. Erlichman is Haldeman's friend, and they protect the President from everybody which is why they are referred to as either The German Shepherds or the Berlin Wall. Mr. Mitchell we've already discussed. Mr. Colson is the President's special counsel.
The most powerful man in America is President Nixon, probably you've heard his name.
Who's Colson, Harry?
I would liken your query to being in Russia half a century ago and asking someone, "I understand who Lenin is and Trotsky I got too, but who's this yokel Stalin?"
Who's Charles Colson?
I can't sell hints to Simons-- --you called everyone you know? Call someone you don't know.
What'd you get on W.House?
As a rough rule of thumb, as far as I can throw Bronco Nagurski, that's how much I trust John Mitchell...
You can't believe that.
Mr. John Mitchell, the head of CREEP, says it means nothing. "...This man and the other people involved were not operating on either our behalf or with our consent. These is no place in our campaign or in the electoral process for this type of activity, and we will not forget it or condone it."
The head of security for the reelection of a Republican President got caught bugging the national offices of the Democrats? What the hell does that mean?
Then how come the Associated Press were the ones found out that Mr. McCord is security coordinator for the Committee to Re-elect the President, otherwise known as CREEP?
I did all right on McCord.
OK, get on this W.House guy and do a better job then you did on McCord.
Don't know; who the hell's Howard Hunt? It's probably nothing but check it out. Just go easy, it could be crazy Cubans.
That's everything Bachinski had, I think it's worth following up.
...go on, go on...
Two o'clock, work the phones 'til you go.
Preliminary hearing at Superior Courthouse?
As usual, that keen mind of yours has pegged the situation perfectly. Except it wasn't local Democratic Headquarters, it was National Democratic Headquarters-- --and these weren't just any idiots, these were special idiots, seeing as when they were arrested at 2:30 this morning, they were all wearing business suits and Playtex gloves and were carrying-- --a walkie-talkie, forty rolls of film, cameras, lock picks, pen-sized tear gas guns, plus various bugging devices. Not to mention over two thousand dollars, mostly in sequenced hundred dollar bills.
You call me in on my day off because some idiots have broken into local Democratic Headquarters--tell me, Harry, why should I be smiling?
Where's that cheery face we've come to know and love?
One Senator just gave a speech slurring us 57 times in 20 minutes.
--maybe I'm tense--
--Harry, weren't you just arguing the opposite way?--
--listen, I love this country, you think I want to bring it down?--I'm not some goddamn zany, I was a hawk--
--go over your sources again--
--listen, we didn't make them do these things--once they did, it's our job to report it--
--political, personal, sexual, anything at all against Mitchell?--
--has any of them got an ax?--
I know, I did, but damnit Howard-- For the first time since I've known him, I think he's really humping...
I don't get it--you were the one who wanted to fire him.
That was awhile ago.
--remember Toronto, Harry.
Anyone but Bernstein.
I can predict the next words you're gonna say: "anyone but Bernstein." I want to send a reporter to Miami.
Let me see what you get, but don't jump--The New York Times thinks it's crazy Cubans.
--in other words, you got nothing, you're thumbsucking.
Woodward's onto a new wrinkle with the break-in thing--absolute page one stuff--
He just did.
--well and good, but when will he say it on the record.
--and he says Chapin hired Segretti--
Larry Young, a California lawyer--
I don't know, but I don't think that's unreasonable either, do you?
You think she wants us to ease up on the story?
Maybe to fire you--since you two started on this story, the Post stock has dropped, what, 50 percent? And the word is some Nixon people are challenging her TV licenses. I'm not saying she's going on relief, but I don't think it's unreasonable for her to want to meet you.
What do you think Mrs. Graham wants to see me for?
--can we use their names?--
Isn't that what you'd expect them to say?
According to White House personnel, Hunt definitely works there as a consultant for Colson. But when I called the White House Press office, they said he hadn't worked there for three months. Then the P.R. guy said the weirdest thing to me. "I am convinced that neither Mr. Colson nor anyone else at the White House had any knowledge of, or participation in, this deplorable incident at the Democratic National Committee."
What else have you got?
Of course--everything they asked--
--look, when the Watergate grand jury questioned you, did you name names?
No, none of those.
--and it wasn't Ehrlichman or Colson or the President.
A girl. Melissa.
A boy or a girl?
Well, when Liddy came and asked for money for what turned out to be the break-in funds, I went to the safe and gave him--out of this whole fortune--I happened to give him the same hundreds he gave me--banks have to keep track of hundreds. If the money had been in fifties, or if I'd grabbed a different stack, there probably wouldn't have been any Watergate story.
Badly. You don't realize how close all this came to staying undiscovered--I gave Liddy the Dahlberg check and he gave it to Barker who took it to Miami and deposited it.
One thing I'm not completely clear on--when you gave out the money to Liddy, how did that work?
I can't say anything, I'm sorry.
I won't talk about the other two.
Colson's too smart to get directly involved with something like that.
We're not sure we've got all the guys who could order you, but we know there were five.
When so ordered.
And as treasurer, you could release those funds?
No. It was closer to seven hundred thousand.
The report on the cash in Maurice Stans' safe, the three hundred fifty thousand, that's true?
As opposed to the Committee? The Committee's not an independent operation. Everything is cleared with the White House. I don't think that the FBI or the prosecutors understand that.
Does "they" mean the White House?
You handed out the money. Maybe there's a legitimate explanation for the way it was done--
I'd like to talk to you, I really would, but my lawyers say I shouldn't until after the Watergate trial.
My wife told me to expect you. As you know, I haven't talked to the press.
I'm not Miss Abbott.
You work there, Miss Abbott.
The what to what?
No, I'm a reporter. I wanted to talk to you about the Committee to Re- Elect.
--I already get the Post. I don't need another subscription.
Hi. I'm Bob Woodward of the Washington Post and I hate to bother you at home--
Okay then. The rest of you okay with that?
I'll do it.
Well then keep it coming. Alright, people, good work! Keep it up and we'll do great at the state competition.
Oh, well... It came from the heart.
No, it was good.
What the hell was that?
What the fuck is this? You got someplace more important to be?
Christ! I didn't say you were out of the game!
-- Thanks, coach --
You're a killer, Ozzy!
Good work, Ostreicher.
I'm not good in math.
You have to pay attention to a girl. Be sensitive to her feelings. Relationships are reciprocal.
Alright, well...you've got to tone it down. You don't need to go to Lookout Point and spout cheeseball lines to be romantic.
Look, Chris. There are just some things you need to learn, that's all.
You need some work, buddy!
Uh...you know, my friends call me Nova -- as in Casanova.
What did you just say?
There's something about the spring that's just cool. Like the smell of fresh rain or something.
Great evening, isn't it?
When was the last time you looked at the facilities here?
Finch, don't you think it's about time you learned to take a dump at school?
Mochaccino. Actually, in the spirit of the pact, I do need to ask for your cooperation in one small matter.
You're just gonna sit there and drink your coffee?
I thought a fashionably late entrance would enhance my appearance. When I got here, the Bacchanalia was over and the nymphs had left.
Finch! Where were you last night? What happened to the foolproof plan?
Good morning gentleman.
This is no imitation. Removing the hot dog from the Ultradog yields a better dog. Behold -- Ultradog, no dog.
Finch, you can be the one to date a nearly-dead insane chick. Eat your damn imitation hot dog.
Perhaps you should consider actually answering an ad.
Neither did I!
I had no idea you'd be this good!
Yes ma'am, I am.
Mister Finch -- are you trying to seduce me?
So...would you object if I said you're quite striking?
Aged eighteen years. Why don't you get the glasses. Behind the bar.
All right, I got some scotch.
No, no, that's what the cretins drink. I mean alcohol, liquor -- good stuff.
I believe the kegs are upstairs.
...Nevermind. You have anything to drink?
Oh no, no date. Bathroom incident.
I'm so happy for you. Takes the edge off, doesn't it? And where might your date be?
I'm three sheets to the wind, ma'am!
As if there were any alternative in the matter. Are you enjoying yourself?
Ah, Stifler's mom! Thank you for letting us have a great party.
So Oz, you almost made it, huh?
I'll tell you, I've learned one thing: women, like wine, get better with age. Of course, I have no frame of reference for this comparison.
Nah. Fuck, you guys are right, I don't know what I'm doing. I mean I'm acting like I've got it all together tonight. But I know Vicky is gonna ask me if I love her. And I don't know what I'm gonna say. So now it's like, maybe I'll just wimp out on the whole thing.
Me too. For the most part.
First of all, it's <u>Mocha</u>ccino, and secondly...Oohhhh!
Finch, listen -- Stifler slipped some sort of laxative in your Mocash-chino or whatever. It's fast acting. I mean <u>really</u> fast.
You're gonna shit your pants!
Why is this?
Easy, tiger. What's in there?
Finch! Get to the bathroom! Now!
What do you suppose they're saying?
You know, Jim...you could go back there...and...
You'll see. Gotta go. Sixteen minute round trip.
What are we gonna hear?
Whatever you hear about me, you agree.
Of course, Finch. What?
This. Right now.
This is your plan, Finch?
I can't think of anything to say that's not cheesy.
I know, it sucks!
Hmm. You know that's really a shitty middle name!
Well, that's what your friends call you. I mean...I feel like I'm one of your friends now...and also...your girlfriend.
You called me Oz.
Oz, it's okay, I know.
No, see Heather, what I realized is that...with you, it's not like I'm running towards the goal, trying to figure out the best way to score. And this may sound corny, but --
This isn't any better, Chris.
No, that's not what I mean. I mean -- look. You know what made me leave that game? Coach was giving this speech, about not slacking off when you see the opportunity to score.
This isn't the best way to proposition me.
It's gonna sound really bad, but I want you to know.
There's something I've been meaning to tell you, Heather.
No. I'm missing the game for you.
You're missing the game for us?!
I'm not playing.
What about the game?!
Alright...yeah...thanks for understanding. So I guess...I'll see you later.
...it's okay, you should do whatever makes you happy.
I'm sorry, I totally spaced. I just...I didn't realize it...
You can't sing at the competition.
...I've got this lacrosse game. It's really important, it's our last game. And you know, Central almost beat us last time, so I really want to kick their ass, and it's like cool because we're gonna get to play at State, which means that after the game I might be able to stop by...
You -- oh, you mean -- yeah, East Lansing and Ann Arbor.
So we're gonna be close next year?
I know. Salt and pepper?
Yeah. You know, people are always like, "What're you gonna major in?" And I don't know. And they're like, "You'll figure it out." Yeah? When?
Well, you're not. Oil and vinegar?
Oh thank God, I thought I was the only one.
Well, I mean, business is okay, and lacrosse is awesome, but what am I gonna be, a pro lacrosse player? I really have no idea.
Yeah. So wow, you've got it figured out.
Well, State's got a good business school. And I can probably walk onto the lacrosse team. Green peppers?
Oh, yeah. So what're you gonna major in?
You want onions?
Yeah, well my parents wanted me to go to Northwestern. I didn't want to write all those extra essays they make you do -- I mean, how am I supposed to know what my "most emotionally significant moment" was? So when my U of M acceptance came in December, I said the hell with it.
So you're going to Michigan?
My dad's always here running the store, busy and stuff...and I fill in once a week so he can get a night off.
Ah, he's always too heavy on the vinegar. If you really want a good one, you gotta let me make it.
Really? Cool. Tell him his subs are great.
Uh...my dad's the manager.
...okay. Cool then. I'm um, I'm glad you came by. I mean, really.
Well...I needed to find you. We are gonna have to practice that song.
You talked to Stifler?
Stifler told me.
How did you know I was here?
Yeah? Well you can't fake your way through this. You better practice.
Because I want to.
Why are you doing this?
Give me a break, you're so full of it.
I wasn't making fun of you.
I saw you making fun of me with your lacrosse buddies.
What? No I'm not.
Oh, please. I asked you because I thought you might actually be worth going with. But you are just a jock. No wait. You're a jerk.
No, I like the car. By the way, though, about prom? That was like a bad idea. Sorry I invited you.
You don't like it?
I'm glad you think so.
Yeah, me too, okay, cool.
Alright, cool. I gotta hit the showers, but...I think this'll be really good.
Okay. So I had this...thought, and...this may seem like it's out of left field, and I don't know if you can, but since I'm not going with anyone --
Neither will I.
Come on! I won't tell.
What's your middle name?
You can call me Ostreicher.
Do I have to?
You can call me Oz.
Just enjoying my exhilarating first lacrosse experience. You like, "kicked butt."
Hey, what're you doing here?
Oh...well that's okay. Cool.
I just -- realized that I didn't know anything about you. I was interested.
Well the same things you do. Hang out with friends and stuff, you know, whatever. What do you think I do?
Yeah...so like, what else <u>do</u> you do?
You? You think I don't get that? God, it's like just because I don't get drunk and barf every weekend, people say "Oh, here's this goody-two- shoes choir-girl priss."
I mean it really bothers me when people try to pigeonhole me like that.
Of course, I didn't --
Oh sure. I know what people think. It's like, Oz, he's just this kickass lacrosse player -- I also play football, by the way -- But that's like...not <u>all</u> that I am.
Okay. I mean, I agree, but...aren't you supposed to be out, like, trying to decapitate someone with your lacrosse stick or something?
Yeah. Right, uh-huh. I feel like I've discovered this whole new side of me. Music is so expressive.
Yeah...so...you've got this sort of... Bobby McFerrin thing going there.
Really? Hey, thanks -- Heather, right?
Not bad, Chris.
Jessica, can you drive me home?
Are you kidding? You've never double- clicked your mouse?
...I've never tried it.
Well that's a no. No wonder you're not psyched about sex. You've never even had one manually?
I think I've had one.
Of course he does. What about you? Have you just never had one with Kevin -- or have you never had one, period?
He likes it.
Vicky, it's not a space shuttle launch, it's sex. So did you do the physics write-up?
Jessica! He'll drive there for me, and I'll drive to Ann Arbor for him. We're going to have sex when he's ready and I'm ready. It's got to be completely perfect. I want the right place, the right time, the right moment.
What the hell are you expecting him to drive to Vanderbilt for? Milk and cookies?
That's not why we're going out.
Yeah but, no offense, you're talking about a post-high school, long- distance relationship, and you and Kevin haven't even done it yet.
What? We both have cars.
Vanderbilt's not that far from U of M.
Duh. Of course. Naturally, I embellished a little bit. Hey, did you hear that Finch had sex with an older woman?
I don't get it, that really works?
Well...I guess it's okay for me to tell you now. That reputation of his isn't going anywhere. Finch comes to me and says, "Jessica, I need help with this, blah blah, etcetera." So I told him, pay me two- hundred bucks, and I'll tell a couple girls that you're dynamite in bed. So he did, and I did.
Then what the hell are you talking about?
Are you kidding? No.
Did you guys hook up or something?
Thanks. It was my idea.
No comment?! Are you kidding me?! I've never seen someone's image change so...so drastically!
Well it's up to you. The Big L, or the Big O.
I don't want to dupe her, Jessica. If I say it, I have to be sure I mean it.
Well, if you want to get her in the sack, tell her you love her. That's how I was duped.
I -- I don't know, you can't ask me that.
Do you love her?
Well of course I'd want to give her that. I mean, what do you think, I don't care about her?
But that one time --
No you haven't.
Well...I'm pretty sure I've --
You got it, stud.
You mean...and orgasm?
I'll give you a hint. "Ohhh, yeah, yeah!" Comprende?
Ah, you'll get her back soon enough. That's easy, she likes you. What you need to do is learn to press a girl's buttons. You gotta give her what she's never had.
Fuck me! Yes!
Yeah, that's right.
You're so big!
I do, baby, I do.
Don't you love my sexy body?!
Oh yeah, baby, I'll give it to you.
Give it to me! Yes!
Yeah, I'm the best, baby.
Oooh, yeah. Oh, baby, you're so good.
No, no that's fine. So you doing okay?
I'm not going.
Kevin, come on, the bus to Stifler's is gonna be here soon.
No, but come on guys, we made a pact!
Back out? You don't need <u>us</u> to get laid. You afraid or something?
Oz, how about you and Heather? Now you guys are a couple or something?
My date's a flute-toting band dork. That answer your question?
Alright, how do you guys stand? Well, Finch, I know where you are, but you can't use that as an excuse. Jim?
You fuckin' rule!
Jesus, Kevin, rub it in.
Yeah? Well come prom night, those excuses aren't going to do you much good.
She's already on a plane back home.
How do you know that?
Shut up. You're supposed to be supportive.
He's going in!
Please, God. Let this be it.
Come on, Jim. Where are you?
Oh boy oh God oh crap oh no.
No, you're stupid. Get going! Right now! She's primed!
Anything! Just tell her it looks like she needs an extra hand or something.
But, but -- what would I do?
Just in time.
Did I miss anything?!
I'll save you a seat.
Well...dammit, if I'm doing this, how the hell am I gonna watch?
You can send me the address too.
I don't get it. How does a guy like that get this sudden reputation?
Went home to shit.
Hey, where's Finch?
No -- it's true. He is...really... big.
I have no idea. Finch showers in a bathing suit.
Exactly three weeks to the day.
Right. That gives us...
Yeah, it's like tradition or something.
Their tiger-style kung-fu is strong; but our dragon style will defeat it!
Separately, we are flawed and vulnerable. But together, we are the masters of our sexual destiny!
That's what we are, we keep each other on track. Prior to this day, we've postured. We've procrastinated. We've pretended. We've -- well I can't think of other p-words, but we've probably done them too.
No, a <u>pact</u>. No money involved. This is more important than any bet. Now here's the deal: We all get laid before we graduate.
Like a bet?
Sorry, I thought you were dead.
Ow, what the hell?
You know, I've never got that shit. What exactly constitutes third base?
What about you? You're the one with the girlfriend and you're still stranded on third base.
So, does my hair look better -- like this, or... like this?
At least now I know what the hell they're saying.
It's all good. Breath check.
You can crash at Stifler's?
Alright...I'm shooting for a nine o'clock ETA. Beer in hand by five after.
No, "Charming" is old. "Older" is <u>really</u> old. "Youthful mind" is dead.
Unlisted age, plus "youthful mind," equals old.
Finch, you got the Latin homework?
There's our man.
I couldn't tell -- She could've meant like, "I love you grandma" or "I love you Vanderbilt."
You think she was serious?
Nothing, I just hugged her back.
And you said...
Okay, okay. I'll let you hit those books.
Oh, no, not too much of a bookworm. He's a good little kid. Er, guy. Man.
I know. Hey Nadia.
Son. This lady's here for you.
That's great. Now remember, it's <u>okay</u> to play with yourself. Or, as I always called it -- "Stroke the salami!" Ho-ho, Jim. There's nothing to be ashamed of. Hell, I'm fifty-two, and I still enjoy masturbating. Uncle Mort masturbates. We <u>all</u> masturbate.
Sure you know, son, but I think you've been having a little problem with it. It's okay, though. What you're doing is perfectly normal. It's like practice. Like when you play tennis against a wall. Some day, there'll be a partner returning the ball. You do want a partner, don't you son?
Dad, please stop. Please. I'm sure I know what you're talking about.
It's not what it looks like!
Okay, well that about covers it.
Thank you, dad, I got it.
Sometimes it can be pretty hard to locate.
Do you know about the clitoris?
Dad! I know!
Oh, okay. Here's let me show you.
I know, Dad.
These are for you. From father to son.
Dad, come in.
Can I come in?
What the heck is this?
Oh yeah! Put it in your mouth!
Don't you want me to?
Are you gonna do what I think you're gonna do?
Come on. I saw you on the net. Why do you think I accepted this date? You're a sure thing!
Why, uh, what makes you think that I --
Now, I have two rubbers. Wear them both, it'll desensitize you. I don't want you coming so damn early.
What, you think I don't know how to get myself off? Hell, that's what half of band camp is! Sex ed!
Oh! And then this one time? At band camp? I stuck a flute in my pussy.
Okay, I get it.
Yes! And he was such a dork! And everyone laughed at me, but I didn't care? Because it was so funny!
So, the end of the story is...you had to kiss the guy for twenty seconds?
Well, this one time? At band camp? We were playing this game, I don't know if you know it? But it's called spin the bottle? And I had to kiss this guy named Marc Wander on the lips? And...
Yeah, bring it on!
You wanna hear a nasty story of mine? It's kind of sexual.
I told you.
That is a <u>nasty</u> story!
Okay. You want a story? Here's a story. Stifler finds this beer, right? And...
Are they gross or something, like guy stuff? Tell me.
Oh, I've got stories, believe me. They're a little more risque than tales of Band Camp.
It reminds me of this one time -- Hey, can I ask you a question? How come you don't have any stories? I've got lots of stories, and you don't have any.
Stifler's mom got it in the divorce.
Highly, highly overrated.
You know, at band camp? We have dances like this. Only they're way funner. Don't you think prom is just highly overrated?
Cool! We're gonna have so much fun! It's like this one time, at band camp...
Whatever you want.
Are we going to Steve Stifler's party afterwards? That would be so cool.
Really? You seriously want to go with me?
Okay. Michelle, do you want to be my date for the prom?
What was your name again?
I thought so. Because, one time? I was at this --
Yeah, that's pretty much it.
Is it because we have a test tomorrow? Sometimes I get cranky when I know I have a big test to study for.
Hold on. You have no idea why I'm angry?
After high school.
After getting laid?
It's true. I mean, after this, everything'll be different.
Hang in there, buddy, you'll get there.
I'll just say that we had a great night together.
Come on, Kevin. Vicky's looking for you.
There it is. I want to grab my bag. Oh, and my date.
So do I, Kev.
I still think you're okay.
No. Her sponsors here saw the thing on the net. I don't think they liked it.
You've still got a chance with Nadia, right?
Oh -- no way. I can't do that to her.
You can do that?
Yeah, I think you sounded pretty good.
Hey guys, you came to watch me in action?
Oh that's really reassuring. And don't call me Nova anymore. I'm a fraud.
Hey, you did better than I did, Nova.
Apple pie... McDonald's or homemade?
Feels like warm apple pie, dude.
So let's say you get there...what's uh, third base feel like?
Shortstop. 'Course, you don't make it to third, and you're out.
Nadia does, that Czechoslovakian chick, she might be there tonight. Now, do you think she'd prefer -- Cool Hip Jim... or Laid Back Jim?
Bli-hinded by the light -- cut loose like a deuce, another runner in the night, blinded...
This was remade? Into what?
"Fun loving" -- insane.
Ooh, here's an easy one: "Attractive SWF, fun loving and a youthful mind seeks outgoing companion." Okay..."Attractive"...ugly.
No -- Kevin, you?
You guys got the Latin homework?
Is there anything you don't jerk off to?
A <u>hot</u> cartoon.
She's a <u>cartoon</u>, dude.
Yeah, Oz, but not when she's on land.
She's a mermaid, dude.
Yeah -- hey, did you see The Little Mermaid on TV the other night? That Ariel, whew.
Illegal channels? Shit, if there's any channel that should be illegal, it's whatever that women's channel is. Lifetime Supply of Pantyhose, or some shit.
Fellas, say goodbye to Chuck Sherman, the boy. I am now a man.
You did it.
Did you see that Central chick? Brunette?
You've got something going?
Indeed. Some fine ladies here, boys. Confidence is high, repeat, confidence is high. Sherman is moving to DefCon Two, full strategic arsenal ready for deployment.
Hey Sherman. Scopin' the babes.
What's up, fellas?
No! I've got...reserve reserves!
I am sorry, Jim. I suppose we will not be doing any studying now.
No, not again.
Oh yes. Very arousing women. They arouse me very much. But not as arousing as you.
Yes...James, it is knowing that these beautiful women arouse you that arouses me...
Did you see this? This is your more exotic dirty magazine.
No, no, I'm not done! I've got reserves! Nadia, please please please. I'm begging you.
You are done, James. Perhaps I should be going now.
Can't what? Do you not want to be with me? I wish to be entertained, James.
Nadia, I can't --
No, no, you must put your whole body into it.
Move with the music.
You mean like, <u>strip</u> strip?
Well. You have seen me. Now it is my turn to see you. Strip.
Shame on you!
James! You have come in here on purpose?!
Do you mind? This fabric is so uncomfortable.
So you need to change, right?
I suppose that would be okay.
Well, I do have ballet practice. Perhaps I can come by your house afterwards. I can change clothes at your place?
Okay...that would be cool sometime. How 'bout tomorrow?
Perhaps you can help me with my studies?
Yes. No. Yes.
You are very good in the world history class, yes?
I thought so.
Me? Nothing. I'm the one whose ass he kicked. I'll tell you one thing, though. I don't think he's gonna have a problem shitting in school anymore.
Oh no, Stifler, what did you do?
Kevin! You seen Shitbreak lately?
This just got a hell of a lot better.
Check-out time! Please vacate the room.
God dammit, Stifler!
SUCK ME, BEAUTIFUL!
Meyers, what's the deal with you and Vicky, anyway? You've been going out since Homecoming and all she'll do is blow you? Shit, I'd drop her like a steaming turd.
Stifler, you're such an asshole.
Your little pact. Jessica told me all about it. Way to go, Kev!
I know. Let's go. Don't you have something to tell your friends?
Vicky...last night...I wasn't lying.
No, Kevin -- That's the whole thing, that's what I've been realizing. That nothing's perfect, that you can't plan everything.
Don't say that, we can do it somehow. It might not be perfect, but --
Kevin, next year...with you in Ann Arbor, and me in Nashville...it's not gonna work, is it.
Yeah, the time went by so fast.
I can't believe we just had our senior prom.
That was a great night.
I love you.
Victoria...I love you.
I want to hear you say it.
Like, normal style. The...missionary position.
I don't know. How do you?
So, do you want to be -- I mean, how do you want to do it?
Yeah, right here.
Okay. Did you bring a condom?
Yeah. Are you sure?
You sure you're comfortable?
Yeah, are you?
Wow, Kev...it's perfect.
See -- this is the nicest room.
No...I know the perfect time...
Kevin... I want to have sex with you.
Yeah, we have something great, Vick.
And I want to make things perfect for you. You're right, Kev, we do have something good...and special.
So have I. And I know you want to make things perfect for me. And I understand that you really wouldn't tell me that until you were 100% comfortable with it.
About the other day...I've been thinking.
It's like a six or seven hour drive. That's easy, I don't mind driving.
Did you know that it's...450 miles from Ann Arbor to Nashville?
I know, Vick. I'm just not ready yet, okay?
Kevin...you're not your dad. The two of us, we're not your parents.
I didn't say that. I mean, love, it's like a term that gets thrown around. People say things, they get married, have kids, and then what? It's like they call it off, going "I was wrong."
But you don't love me.
No, I don't not love you. I like, I know that we've definitely got <u>something</u> between us. Something good. Something special.
Kevin? Do you not love me?
You want to do it?
I think you're so right, Kevin.
Well, I feel that...things are getting to that point in a relationship. When two people share...a special moment between them.
Indeed I did. But, our relationship. It's progressed a lot. It's time for us to...express ourselves in new ways.
Yeah, we have. You corrupted my four- point into a three-nine-five.
We've come a long way since Homecoming.
It's everyone's trick, Kevin. But I did pick it up from you.
That's my trick!
No, I'm not. I'm writing a sequence of random numbers that look like I'm doing the extra credit problems. Mr. Bender doesn't bother to check homework past April.
You're not doing the extra credit problems.
Just a second!
Oh Kevin -- don't stop!
Shhhh. Your parents are downstairs.
And I want to try to make it up to you.
Yes! I'm a shithead! I'm a complete and total shithead!
I think "shithead" really says it.
I was being selfish. And majorly insensitive. And I'm a total idiot.
Not for you.
Okay, don't stop.
Let me know.
Yeah, it's such a perfect evening. Isn't this how you've always pictured it?
Vicky -- do you think, maybe...it's time for us to take the next step in our relationship?
You got in.
Kevin, this is serious!
"Dear Ms. Hughes. We're sorry, but after keeping you on the wait list for the past couple months, we've decided you are now rejected. Enclosed is a 100-page, full-color brochure on how rejected you are."
You think so?
It's a big, thick envelope, Vicky. You got in.
Hey. I got another question for you.
You've just inherited The Bible.
Qualify for what?
That's good, that's what I needed to hear. Now you qualify.
Well, no. I think...I guess it would be good to be able to return the favor. I mean, it would be nice to know she enjoys things as much as I do.
Uh -- forget that. Look, is that all you're interested in? Ways to get your girlfriend into bed?
What?! How do I do that?
Try the spicy tuna hand roll.
Uh...I thought you might know a trick or something. To make her, you know...
Say that again, Kevin?
Whoop, you're fading out. Good luck at that party.
Ready for what?
You know what, nevermind. You're not ready.
Does it tell me how to get laid?
Well, that's not really the name, but we always called it that.
What? Not <u>the</u> Bible?
Have you ever heard of the bible?
Yeah, well anyway...I thought you might have some advice, brother to brother. I mean, I think tonight she might, we might really, there's a chance that -- you know.
Just dial 976-Asshole.
What was I gonna do, call dad? I don't even know his number.
You called me to ask me how to get laid?
Fuck yeah we will.
Yeah, but we'll still see each other.
I think we're falling in love.
Wow. You two really have something going, don't you?
Yeah. So you want double condiments on that?
I guess we'll call you two-ply.
And by the way, Sherman didn't even get laid.
I don't care.
<u>It was a pact</u>. You break it and there are no excuses. You guys have to --
Kevin, it was just a --
Attitude? Me? I think that <u>you</u> guys should be more enthusiastic. Shit, we've been trying to get laid forever, and tonight's the night we've been waiting for. We're in this together. Don't back out on me now!
Dammit, Kevin, what's with the attitude?
I can't, I have no idea how he's doing it. And that leaves you trailing, Jim. You gotta get your act together.
Nah, you get kind of dizzy though.
So does your tongue cramp up?
I know, but think about it -- At the parties that night. Chicks are gonna want to do it.
Dude, prom sucks.
So, I'm thinking prom is basically our last big chance.
Guys, guys -- you're ruining my fucking moment here. Now think about it --
The Sha-lin masters from east and west must unite!
This is different. This is better. Think of when you're working out, Oz. You need a partner, someone to spot you. Someone to keep you motivated.
Dude, it's not like I haven't been trying to get laid.
No shit, I'm never gonna get laid. How the hell am I gonna become this Mr. Sensitive Man?
I put in months of quality time with Vicky. Sherman meets a chick for one night and scores? This is just wrong.
That's the spirit.
I'm such a loser.
Feeling better, Oz?
Then where does a blowjob figure in?
It's early Springsteen, dude, this is classic. This was before the cheesy remake.
How the hell do you know all these random songs?
And little hurly-burly came by in her curly-wurly, and asked me if I needed I ri-hide --
You got something up your sleeve for tonight, Finch?
Dude, I wish you wouldn't do that.
Once, in church, dude.
You ever hear of something called The Bible?
Oh shit dude, the L-word!
Then she said -- she loves me.
Our last game is this Saturday.
No thanks, you've been singing that shit all week. If you try that at MSU this Saturday, I'm pretending I don't know you.
Come on, you know the words, sing along.
Oh my fucking God. You're gay.
I'll bet you do, you little horndog, she's givin' you fuckin' stiffies, right?
Hey, you know, what can I say, I dig those cute little sweaters she wears.
Stifler, fuck -- ...man, you don't have to be so insensitive.
Well, just don't expect Oz to pay for the limo.
Dude, watch me work. They go for sensitive studs like me.
You dipshit, you're expecting to score with some goody-goody choir-girl priss?
This place is an untapped resource. Check it out, dude, these vocal jazz girls are <u>hot</u>.
What the fuck are you doing here?
Keep it down, dude.
I think you need your balls reattached.
Shut the fuck up.
You actually said that?! Haaaah!!
Dude, he does not.
Hah! Yeah, Oz, I bet it's more like your dad works at <u>her</u> store.
She works part-time at my dad's store.
Bullshit. From where?
Dude, it's gotta happen -- she's a college chick!
Yeah right. I got an idea for something new. How 'bout you guys actually locate your dicks, remove the shrink wrap, and fuckin' use 'em.
Nah, gave her the Heisman. I'm working on something new.
That junior chick?
Depends if my date wants to stop by.
You coming to party tonight, Ostreicher, ya fuckface?
You know. If we hook up, tomorrow I'll just be some girl you go telling all your friends about.
I don't know if I want to be doing this.
God, I can't believe there are so many cool people at this party.
But you better hurry.
Either way works for us...
Oh sure, it was all mean old Marcel's idea. Give me a break! We didn't tell you because it's a wild goose chase! Not to mention disgusting. Look...
I mean, if by some miracle you can find the werewolf that bit you, and then manage to eat it's heart, the curse is lifted. I was gonna tell you but Marcel wouldn't let me.
You try to be a good sport, and look what happens.
Merde! I can't believe this!
Sure. We wouldn't ask you to do anything we wouldn't do. Now give me your hand... that's it...
Tell you what, we'll jump together.
Would you shut up?
Also like sex with my wife.
The key is don't look down.
Just like sex with my wife.
Look, the more you think about it, the harder it is.
Are you crazy!? You know that's totally impractical. Besides, like the Bible says... An eye for an eye...
Geez, I feel bad for him. Maybe we should've told him abou -
Uhh! Would you die already!
Merde! Just missed!
Let's face it. It's a, how do you say... mother-fucker. But we're all in it together. That's why we're trying to help you.
Oh give me a break! He could use pills back in America! Why not get a little culture?
I'd use pills. They're painless.
Hanging is nice. Never goes out of style. What about hare-kare - a taste of the Orient? But no! You're in Paris! Try the Guillotine! There's one in the Louvre!
Oh, big man. You can beat up a couple of cadavers. Well let me make something real clear, asshole. If you don't kill yourself, at midnight tonight you're gonna transform and murder innocent people!
What, all of a sudden you got a degree in supernatural law?
Hey, you can't kick me! You're an apparition!
Rip my face off? Hey, we all make mistakes. Hell, I didn't mean to sleep with you on the first night, especially without a condom. But I did, and now I'm paying the price.
Look, I didn't mean to hurt anybody... God, I didn't mean to... to...
Uh huh... And, supposing I believed that, what could I do about it?
A-duh... You're a werewolf. And we, as your victims, have to walk the earth until your curse is lifted.
Okay... dead or undead... what do you want from me?
No it isn't! You're dead!
Face it boyfriend. This is really happening.
Aaaaa! Jesus! This isn't happening. I'm still hallucinating. Shit!
Thanks for the lovely evening, shithead!
Ahh! Jesus! You're burning hot! What the hell -
I don't know... Surprise me.
Ah. The mating call of the blonde. The night is young, the moon is bright, whataya feel like doing tonight?
Ha ha! Yeah right, white boy! Ha Ha ha. I think maybe I drank too much.
Up to there? Really? I bet I could beat that.
Who gives a shit? I've had it up to here with arrogant Frenchmen.
Hope I didn't hurt him too bad.
Ha ha. You were probably right about his mom.
Wow. You know Kung Fu or something?
It's all in the tongue. Another bottle?
God. How can you eat like that?
What a coincidence, I am someone! Mmm. Calvin Klein's Obsession. Now it's mine too.
Actually, I'm waiting for someone.
Oh God. Shit...
Okay. Be careful.
Let's go from both ends. We'll cut him off.
These tunnels must loop around and connect.
Well, they are French.
Pretty stylish digs for a bunch of paupers.
After the revolution, the Paris cemeteries overflowed. They dug up all the old bodies and brought them here. Seven million people. Mostly very poor.
"Stop! Beyond this passage lie the catacombs of Paris: the exclusive domain of the dead."
What does it say?
It's making me hungry.
God. I can't believe it.
No wonder he let her go.
All your weapons, on the floor! Now!
Didn't even have to ask.
Somewhere where there are no police, and plenty to eat.
I know where he'll go.
No. We have to try. We'll figure something out. And if midnight comes before we can get to him, well, then we go together. Deal? Shake a paw?
We can't stop him. Not now. Handcuffed, with no kind of weapons. Please Andy...
I couldn't do it. Not to you.
We don't both have to die.
You know what. Kill me. Cut out my fucking heart. Go on! Do it!
Here! Come on! Do it! Go ahead.
Shut up! You fucking shut up! What do you want? Huh? What the hell do you want?
What was I? Your idea of a fuckin' hors d'oeuvre? Huh?
You made me go there. I tried to stop you! You wouldn't listen!
That's the scar where I stabbed you! Oh God... You deliberately took me down there so you could... God, I can't believe it!
No I.... Andy, you can't be sure.
It was you... That night in the tunnels. You. You did this to me.
Andy?... What? What is it? Andy... are you okay?
Holy mother of God...
Yeah. French fries...
I hope they fucking fry us all.
I... I didn't think you would... I'm sorry... I believed that son-of-a- bitch...
What the fuck!? You too!?
Before Hemingway, there was Starsky and Hutch.
Are you crazy!?
Guess that's why he hid it there. Let's go.
I didn't know he had a wine cellar.
I saw him. Just before those bastards zapped him back. The ADM is in the wine cellar, in a bottle of Chateau Margaux.
Shit. What have I done? Stall them! I'll meet you out back.
I suppose you're right. But I still don't like it.
Listen, either he wastes away as a pathetic vegetable or he can give what's left of his life to save hundreds of potential victims. He's a McDermott. I know what his choice would be.
I don't know...
I told you. He already tried to contact me once. If you saw his face... He was desperate to tell me something. I owe him this.
What makes you so sure this will work?
I had to be a damn Hemingway hero. Well I'll tell ya, the old man and the sea didn't go through half this shit.
Andy... I should never have let you go underground. I'm sorry...
Because, Andy. It's a cure.
You two faced bastard. I knew you were full of shit.
What?! He told you? When?
I know. He told me.
I'm not alright. We both know that. The only reason I'm here now is to warn you. You're still in danger. Gaston told me that Claude has got the curse too. He's a werewolf.
Listen, I'm coming over. Don't go anywhere. Stay right there.
I don't... I... I can't remember...
Where did you go last night? What did you do?
No, I don't think so... I was having a nightmare. Wait a second...
Are you okay?
Roussel? You mean Claude? You're calling Dr. Demento so he can come paint my face again? Fuck that.
Professor Roussel. There's something wrong with you. I know it.
Fixing your makeup with a phone, huh? Who the fuck are you calling?
I'll be right back. Stay put.
Ahh, Rodin. Mmm! He's the fuc- I mean, he's the best. You must go to the Rodin sculpture garden, in the huitieme, it's so beautiful.
This looks familiar...
A la votre.
That's what counts. If you're not passionate about it, don't waste your time. That's why I quit college... Plus I'm a lazy bastard. Wait, I know this... A votre sante.
So's Woody Allen. No, your uncle really helped me. I was sort of messed up for a while. Wasting my time just partying and... just stupid shit. He kind of woke me up, gave me a job, got me taking classes. You know, he and Claude, their work is controversial, but they're serious about it. Totally dedicated.
Like I should talk. Monsieur foot-in- the-mouth. I'm really sorry about that whole Woody Allen thing...
So tell me, exactly which truck driver did you study English with?
Shit! You bought enough pate for a fucking army!
Man! Our first date and already you're trying to get me to change! You French women work quick!
Don't you want to change?
It's okay. I can see fine.
What about your glasses?
Okay. But I'm back in half an hour.
What about food? Even beautiful women have to eat. It's true. I read it. Please? A half an hour? My treat? Pleez! Don't make go out there alone again! I'm begging you!
I know! Let's go hock loogies off the Eiffel Tower!
Go to Jim Morrison's grave at Pere Lachaise. It's overrun with American tourists. I have to work.
Come on Serafine. Let's go out. Show me the real Paris, the part that isn't overpriced and overrun with German tourists.
Hey, what more could I want? I survived my first and last hallucinogenic hellride, and neither of us is dead. I'd say I feel almost as great as you look.
So... you feel okay now?
I was an Indian, actually. Man, that damn psycho paint...! If that's supposed to be mild, I don't want to know about medium. The planet earth. It's good to be back.
You have to be a hero. All Americans think they are cowboys.
Um... sort of... Maybe... It's all kind of blurry. We met at the club, then... Damn, that was some weird shit.
What happened? Did you cut yourself?
Yeah... Ditto. I saw, er, I thought I saw you get munched... like Uncle Terrence...
Thank God! What a relief! I thought... After you disappeared... I couldn't find you... I thought all sorts of horrible things...
Andy! Holy shit!
You must get out of here. It's not safe.
So you came after all. Just in time, it's getting interesting.
Wait a second, are you like the Steven King of France or something...
Maybe I didn't know him like you did. But he's my uncle. And I owe it to him to get some answers. It's a quest like, uh, Hemingway, the Old Man and The Sea. Except instead of an old man I'm a young man, and instead of the sea, it's a bunch of tunnels under Paris. And instead of a big fish it's... who knows? That's what I'm going to find out. Au revoir.
What good can you do? Why are you being so fucking stupid?
Come on. I'm from New York - the "shoot me" state. Don't wait up.
I'm serious. There's nothing for you down there. It's dangerous.
In an underground club? I'd like to see that.
Professor Claude Rousel. The one your uncle was working with. He teaches cultural history.
And who's Claude?
Yes. It's a bad place. Weird people. Strange things go on.
Like an underground club?
It's nothing. A stupid party. Not really a night club, it's, uh...
Medusa... What's this? some kind of club?
Uh-huh. Good for you.
Fine. My mistake. You know, I'm gonna be a writer myself some day.
You were. I have work to do. The publisher wants the transcripts by Monday. Go. Make yourself at home.
Hey, Sorry if I was out of line.
You must not have known him very well. He's not like that.
If you leave it for more than a few minutes it locks up. Now I must reboot and type a dozen fucking passwords. He was security crazy.
Well put. So, what exactly has uncle Terrence been up to lately?
Police. They have their head in their asshole and they still can't find shit.
Yeah. True. The cops weren't much help either. Their theory is he was moonlighting as a drug dealer or something. Make sense to you?
It's a fucking nightmare, isn't it?
Sure. I can follow that.
You? You're Madame Flocquet? I pictured a fat lady with an apron, not - I don't know - La Femme Nikita.
Serafine Flocquet. I work for your uncle.
Yeah, that's the word. And you are?
Oh fuck, you are his nephew...
Shut up! Save your stories. The only thing I want to hear is you begging for your life. I want to see you suffer, like they did. Haha! You're scared now, eh? Come on. Where's the scary monster now huh? Ha ha... We'll see who -
Shhh! Be quiet, man! We're not alone -
It's you. You should be dead in that wreck with Bazin and Racine!
Pull over! Now!
You on drugs? Huh?
There's something down there! A bear or something! A god damn monster! Beau coup teeth! Huge, Grande, with yellow eyes, all this hair, it killed Serafine! My God...
It bit me! My leg! Jesus, it's down there, shoot it! Shoot it for Christ's sakes!
Okay, what the hell are you up to?
"Fuck"? You think I don't know this word "fuck"? Is that how you talk to policemen in America?
GET ME THE FUCK OUT OF HERE!!
FOR GOD'S SAKES, LET ME OUT!!
Hey! You shouldn't be down there!
Looks like he lied to you too.
Why isn't it doing anything!?
Ha. Some wonder drug...
You bastard! God! I should've known. You wanted the cure all for yourself!
Go ahead Serafine. Blow him away.
Another step and he's dead!
Sure. Don't you?
Do you think I'm an idiot?
Hey, I'm new here, what do you want?
What's the problem?
If you know about the church, why ask such stupid questions?
So, if you and the nutty professor are both werewolves, what do you want with drugs? You like seeing lots of pretty colors when you're tearing people's throats out?
Yeah, okay. Just gimme a minute to freshen up.
The ADM. Let's go.
And you call me a moron...
What, you think Claude hangs out underground cause he likes to dance?
Bullshit! You're bluffing!
Don't be an idiot! I'm not the only one. If I die, Serafine dies!
You'll never get the chance.
No. But I'll kill your fucking girlfriend!
Or else what? You'll kill me?
Saint Severin? The church? So you know all about the ADM! Where is it! Tell me! Tell me or else!
He didn't tell me anything. All he said was Saint Severin...
Before the coma!
My uncle's in a coma you moron!
Bullshit! Your uncle told you!
Man, I don't know what the fuck you're talking about.
Where's the ADM? Where did your uncle put it?
Yeah? In New York we got an expression too. Goes like this...
In Paris we have an expression for people like you: Encul d'Americain.
My men think you died and floated away in the Seine. If I wanted to, I could let them believe that. But that would be illegal...
What about me?
I always wanted to do that. I saw it in a movie.
I leave these open. Maybe something comes back to you.
But... I don't remember anything, I swear...
Merde... Wait here. When I return you tell me about last night, huh?
This is... it's like a sick joke, I -
He was a good man. Now his wife is a widow.
Oh no... no....
That's not all... Marcel - Officer Boulard was following you.
Oh shit... No...
We know you were with her.
You recognize her?
You sure it's not just 'coz you jerk off too much?
All my life I've worked to unlock the power of the unconscious mind. Well this is it. This is power!
I told him it wasn't ready...
It killed him... You coulda just used Draino. It's cheaper.
That's what Serafine is searching for. Without much luck, I'm afraid. If only we could speak with him. But alas, he's off in another realm, close to death.
Eight o'clock. Shit. You'd think my uncle would have left a clue, a note, something...
Yes, that sociopath. He's given himself over to the evil of lycanthropy. To him, ADAM is just a threat to the terror he holds over others. To us, it's salvation.
Because Gaston was after it.
Yes. I was able to decode the old texts and give Terrence the specifications. It took a lot of trial and error, but finally he got it: Adenine Di-Methyloxide. ADM. I call it ADAM. But just before he was attacked, he hid it...
It's chemistry, Andy. Nothing more. Mutated antigens concentrated in the heart of the infector unlock a vaccine- like chain reaction in the infectee. There were not many bio-chemists working in the twelfth century, but with today's technology it's possible to synthesize any chemical imaginable. When I discovered this ancient cure I knew who to go to.
Great. Later on we'll have to get together for cocktails. Right now I kinda have to hurry before I grow a lot of hair and eat people. Say this heart thing works. What's it got to do with ADM?
What?... Oh, right, you can see these guys too. Jesus...
I don't believe we've been introduced.
Yeah, well what if it's the Weekly World News...
"Simon ate of the heart of the beast and his soul was cleansed." These pictures are not just myth, Andy. The scholars of the day used them to record facts and enlighten the public. This is the medieval version of a newspaper.
Why the fuck would I do that?
You're exactly right, Andy. I enlisted both Serafine and your uncle to obtain ADM. And now I'm counting on your assistance too.
My God! Serafine's right. It's time to go. We'll talk soon.
Not you too -
Yeah, well if I claw my face off, just pack it in ice, okay? Jesus... the cops were probably right. My uncle was messed up with a bunch of fry brains and they went berserk on him.
You didn't know? But then why did you... well, don't worry. It's relatively mild.
Terrence and I came down here to do serious work. For centuries these tunnels have been home to subcultures mainstream society would not tolerate.
Yeah well, that's like really groovy and everything, but who hacked my uncle's legs off?
He's on a new drug called ZBH, or "Daydream". It allows the user to be fully alert and mobile while he's dreaming. He is literally conscious and unconscious at the same time.
You think it's silly. But do you realize that young man is actually in a deep sleep?
Psychic awareness. Right.
The cops. It's their backward laws that force all this underground in the first place, endangering people whose only crime is pushing the limits of perception, exploring new states of psychic awareness.
Yeah, well, why did he hang out here? The cops said it's dangerous -
It's horrible. Terrence was one of the most brilliant men I've known.
I know. I'm Andy McDermott. Terrence's nephew.
I'm sorry my friend, I'm not signing books right now. There's been a tragedy.
I never thought I'd ask this of anyone, Andy, but do me a favor and kill the evil son-of-a-bitch, will you?
Yeah, I finally "checked out", thank God. But there's a bit of unfinished business.
Uncle Terrence, you're...
AHHH!! The wine cellar!! In a bottle of Chateau Margaux. A metal cylinder... Don't... Don't - AAAAH!
Where is it! Please!
The ADM! Quickly! Where is it?!
Oh shit! No! Andy, don't let them take me back there!
I went to St. Severin church. Now look -
The ADM! Be careful, Andy. It's very powerful. How do you know about it?
Great, but listen, I need to know where you hid the ADM?
Undead. Right. Sort of an ectocosmic manifestation. What a pisser. Tell you one thing though, Timothy Leary will be jealous as hell.
Andy, I have to tell you about the dream I had - or that I'm still having - it feels like a systemic, physio- tropic reaction to some drug, maybe a triptamine or phenethylamine derivative. But it is hyper-real. I'd swear my legs had been cut off or... wait a second... I'm getting a strange meta-physical buzz. Shit. I'm, uh, dead, aren't I?
Yeah. Look, uncle Terrence -
Andy? Andy is that you?
Yeah, I know. Back to the Eiffel Tower. And what about you?
Yeah, well I don't know much about chemistry, but even if this stuff works, you better find it by midnight. Otherwise it's -
Puking on yourself in midair is not a good death.
Don't worry. In a few seconds you won't feel a thing.
Shit. I feel sick.
But this is class kid, all the way. What a way to go.
What the hell, lots of my heroes killed themselves. Hemingway, Van Gogh... um... Herve Villachaise...
Good man. Now can I have my arms back?
Alright. Let me write a letter.
No we can't. That's the problem. God knows it would beat hanging around with you!
Fuck you! If I'm gonna kill myself I'll do it when I'm good and ready! You can go to hell!
What are you so damn angry about? Did somebody turn into a wild beast and rip your intestines out? Huh?
Aaaaa!!! Get the fuck away from me!
I'm afraid she's not so lucky. She's undead. And so am I.
Well, when you're about to pop off, what have you got to lose? Thanks for your help.
Not that I know.
I don't know. There were others much closer. He was religious?
Why would he pick this one?
Just the name of this hospital, St. Severin. He repeated it a few times then he lost consciousness.
Yeah. I guess so. Did he say anything? Before the coma?
Andy, it's not so easy. There are hundreds of kilometers of tunnels under Paris. It's a whole other city, crawling with drug addicts, lunatics, skinheads... It's no man's land.
I can't believe this. Why don't you go down in the tunnels and find the goddamn... animals that attacked my uncle?
Maybe we should go now. You must be very tired. We'll call if any new -
Yeah, well, these fleas must have teeth like fuckin' chain saws.
Well, here's what I think happened. A chemistry professor goes to a bad part of town late at night. Why? Perhaps he's making a few francs on the side. The psychedelic drug market is big these days. He gets mixed up with a bad crowd and, like they say, if you lie with dogs, you get fleas.
What do you mean, maniacs?
Vegetable, right. My mistake. It seems he was attacked by a maniac, maybe two or three maniacs, just after midnight. yesterday. They fled into the tunnels beneath Paris, that's all we know...
Legume? You mean, a vegetable?
No. The doctors say the machines should keep him going a long time. But basically he is, how you say, a legume.
Not too well. He taught at the Sorbonne, right? Dad always calls him his "hippie brother". Did some work with Timothy Leary I think, and - Is he... is he going to die?
How well did, er, do you know him?
Right. Listen, my uncle, it's not serious is it? Did he eat some bad snails? Slip on the bidet? What?
He's in charge but, uh, between you and me, my English is better. This way... So you're from New York eh? I love those Hill Street Blues...
That's McDermott, but yeah.
Are you crazy? We have nothing. Let him go, then watch him. If you're right, you can pick him up at midnight. Or maybe he'll lead you to the others. Just let him go.
I can't! At midnight tonight, he will kill again. It's crazy!
Enough. Cut him loose.
I told you. These murders are not normal.
Don't give me your black magic bullshit! Seven mutilations in forty eight hours and all you find is a scrawny American boy? Do you have a motive? Do you have a weapon? Or do you want me to believe he did it with his own two hands?
I'm telling you. It's not drugs. It's something more. Someth -
Okay. So he's weird. Maybe on drugs. Still, that's not -
Oh, did I hurt the little girl's feelings? Well excusez moi... I confess my desire for ADM is quite "intense". So I deceived you and our poor friend Terry - a competent technician, but let's face it, a bit naive. "The great cure for lycanthropy!" Hmph. He didn't have the vision to grasp the potential of ADAM, until it was too late. And even then, he came rushing down to tell me, as if I would be just as shocked! Ha.
You fucking liar!
No, it's no cure. It's something much more interesting.
God, well don't let him go! Catch him!
Claude, it's Andy, he's acting really weird, I think something happened last night...
Serafine? Is that you? What's going on?
Andy, stop! I think he can help you -
But Inspector, this girl, I wouldn't call her reliable.
I need two tactical assault squads at Place Denfert immediately. You can tell the commissioner it's a code red.
Something about a monster, underground, in the catacombs under Place Denfert.
What did she say?
Just a crazy call from a girl, probably fucked up on drugs. I wouldn't bother you but you said call with anything unusual.
What've you got?
What, you think everyone's as ignorant as you?
You think that's what McDermott was raving about in the ambulance?
You never heard the story of Saint Severin driving the werewolves from Paris?
Right. Little twerp thinks he's Colombo.
You better follow that McDermott kid. He's going to wind up like his uncle if he's not careful.
Two more nights in this lunar cycle.
Twelve thirty-six a.m. here. Twelve forty a.m. here. There's two of them. At least.
Hmmph. At least now there's one person around here who doesn't think I'm crazy.
Okay. So maybe you were right.
Your uncle was carrying this. The keys to his apartment are in there. I talked to his assistant, Madame Flocquet. You'll be staying there a while?
He says -
Get on! Anastasia, get on!
When you're older . . .
"Together in Paris"! Oh, when can we be "together in Paris?!
It's where I've made my home but I do have something for you . . .
Oh, Grandmama, why do you have to go back to Paris?
I know, but I had to because . . .
I thought you were told not to tutor your servants anymore.
How to read.
What were you showing her?
I was showing Sonya something . . .
Why were you so late tonight
Then come find me.
Anya! What if <u>we</u> can't find anyone who loves us?!
Then you'll have to make your own home. Lots of people do.
But what if we can't ever find where we came from?!
I have to go now, before it gets light.
I'm not sure but look. . .
Where is your home, Anya?
No. I'm running <u>to</u>.
Are you running away?
No. From now on I am your loyal subject ... your highness. By your leave?
Vlad, stop acting this way! You're my friend!
Fortunately, I am to be married. With your highness, permission.
Cut it out, Vlad! I'm not angry with you anymore - I know how much you needed the money.
Yes, your highness.
Yes, your highness.
Oh, Meetoo! You look miserable! Oh, Vlad - look at him!
Not you. Him.
Come out! I can do alterations.
No! I look ridiculous!
You must have.
Did I tell you that?
I don't have a memory and I'm not a Princess! Even if I were - no one's ever going to believe it. I'm not exactly...
We're just going to refresh your memory...
Ah ... the Lady Sophie... The ravishing first cousin, once removed, from the Empress. We must convince Sophie that you are the Princess before we'll be granted a meeting with the Empress ... your grandmother, I mean.
We have to prepare you for an audience with Sophie.
Is everyone all right?
She's quite right, Dmitri, a man of my stature should not have to
Look, I came here to get papers to travel to Paris and. . .
I was just wondering since we already have the dress. . .
Well, I don't have any money . . .
Providing travel papers is illeagal! I know Dmitri well - perhaps I can help you. Providded you have enough money to pay for this service. . .
I heard it from everyone who said I didn't hear it from them! Do you know Dmitri?
Who did you hear it from?
I'll never let go!
Don't let me go!
Anya... where are we?
I'm glad you did too.
I'm glad you found what you were looking for.
No! I thought you believed in me! It was all a lie!
No! Well, yes, but
Tell me it isn't true?! Tell me you didn't do this for the money!
I'm so scared...
You'll convince her. You have the qualities of a princess you're poised and strong... and beautiful ... even if you forget a couple dates of family names - she'll know.
Yes - If I can't convince Sophie, I'll never be able to see Tatiana....
It's okay. Didn't hurt..
Oh! I'm sorry...
Hey! It doesn't matter! You gotta make your own way in the world! Don't be sorry for me! I'm going to get what I want don't you worry!
Well, the only thing you've got when you've got a home is a fear of losing it! You're lucky you don't remember the revolution -- I never had much, but what I did have -- I lost.
I know I must have had something to do with the palace - I've had little flashes of things - but being the Princess? It doesn't matter as long as I find my home.
Yeah ... well, yours. You still don't believe that you're the Princess, do you?
Lost. it feels lost. This was hers?
It's so beautiful ... and sad.
It's not you - it's the dress!
You said you wouldn't laugh!
It used to be a private yacht before the government took it over.
What a beautiful ship!
The dessert fork!
It's the best fork of all
...fish fork, salad fork, meat fork and. . . [THIS SECTION ALSO NOT LEDGABLE]
Natasha! Natasha Feastavich!- but we called her Nashie Fooshie!
Every Russian family has one..
You are the Princess.
You never said anything to me about having to prove I'm a Princess!
You shouldn't have pushed us!
You must enjoy causing me pain!
Now just get off the train.
Forged papers! Now, what?!
Trying... to... breathe...
Just what do you think you're doing?!
Come on up!
That's a good idea - a great idea - stretch your legs ... stretch then that way.
I'm going to stretch my legs
I was all out of dynamite!
By pulling my hair?!
I wasn't bothering you. I was trying to wake you up!
Sorry - it's a reflex. Living in an orphanage if someone bothers you - you automatically come up swinging.
Do you always punch people first thing in the morning?
Look - there isn't an orphan in the world who doesn't dream she's a princess but, come on. . . Look at me!
You never thought of the possibility?
Anastasia's grandmother is in Paris. We're going to bring Anastasia to her - in Paris.
I have my reasons.
Why do you want to go to Paris?
Perhaps it's because she has amnesia too - can't remember. . .
I don't know. I don't see what this has to do with me.
You know, it's strange - Anastasia's grandmother, the Dowager Empress Tatiana has been looking for Anastasia since the revolution. Why do you think she wouldn't go to her own grandmother?
I don't know - I don't remember anything that happened before the revolution. . .
What happened to your parents?
People say Anastasia was the only member of the Royal Family to escape alive. That makes her an orphan too
Who are you?!
AND A SONG SOMEONE SINGS ONCE UPON A DECEMBER.
That's quite a hard head you've got there, boy.
I'm sorry. . . I'm. . .
Ouch! That really hurt!
And we have found each other nothing will ever change that! I am your family, dear child, but I may not be your home.
I've spent my whole life waiting to find you ...
Yes, you do. You do.
I don't know who I am! I still don't know!
This is who you were. Exactly who you are is up to you.
And this is my future. This is who I am!
You can't go back to find your home. Your home is in your heart, in the future that you make for yourself.
I wanted to come home, Grandmama - and I did. I came back to my home with you.
Is it? Is this what you want?
"If" I accept?! Of course I'm going to accept! it's what I always wanted!
You'll have to become used to it, child, if you accept the crown...
Why does everyone have to act that way?
No, he just wanted to know you were happy.
Dmitri didn't want the money?
No, not about the ceremony, Anastasia - do you understand the choice you must make.
Oh, yes, Grandmama - I wait until I hear...
Don't you, child?
No, no child... shush... it's all right ...
No, it wasn't a bat! I saw this horrible man - I remember him, I think...
Anastasia! It was just a bat! It's gone, dear...
Don't worry about that now, child, it will all come back to you now that you're home...
... and that Christmas dinner, when Cook made that awful plum pudding and we hid it in our pockets so we wouldn't hurt her feelings! I do remember so much now, Grandmama, - but not everything.
THINGS MY HEAR USED TO KNOW THINGS IT YEARS TO REMEMBER
PAR AWAY, LONG AGO GLOWING DEEP AS AN EMBER
I remember something lost ... I'm so confused! Oh, please, just tell me if you recognize me! Do you think I could have... belonged to you ...
Do you remember this?
I don't know! I don't want to hurt you...
Who are you, child?
PARSE HOLDS THE KEY TO MY HEART FRENCH- BAT- CHICKS HANG OUT AT MONTMARTRE WE'LL EAT SOME IN-SECTS THEN GO BACK AND HAVE --
Me? No. Rich food - it kills me. Ever try and fly after one of those heavy sauces?
Bartok ... have you ever been to Paris?
She leads a charmed life, that little one ... Someone is always there to save her. In the palace as a child, on the train and now ... it's him.
Boy, don't you hate it when that happens?
What do you think is the most humiliating way to die?
I'm getting pneumonia. I have a fever. Feel my forehead...
Bartok... a question.
I'm getting a chest cold..
Oy... not a road trip. I get wagon sick, you know that.
Yesss... our power is much stronger when were near. We must get close to her.
Evil, powerful beings - I have their power only if I contain them, control them. If they should all be released at once... well ...
You'd lose your security deposit?
Do you have any idea what would happen if that broke?!
My Aunt Bella, sweet woman not the brightest bat in the world - she used to hang right side up, anyway she always said "Curses were made to be broken". Course, she said it in those irritating little bat squeaks, so it wasn't quite so profound...
I cursed then all!
Hey, she's just a kid. And she's going to Paris outta sight, outta mind, outta Russia.
Rodent's intuition, how do I know? She looks exactly like her. Except she's taller, which is natural ... Of course my second cousin Treplev - he never grew. Looks like a little pepper shaker. He was so cute ...
How do you know?
Trust me, it's her!
Okay... you're not gonna like this but, well, it looks like Anastasia is ... still alive.
Get to the point sometime tonight.. I'm late for a wenching.
So, I'm cruisin' the rafters and... what can I say, I struck out. I thought chicks would like the fact that I can talk, you know but, I mean, the way things are going I couldn't get invited to a plague. Someone's gotta clean that up...
Why would I ever be angry with you, little friend?
No, I really like my tongue... we're very attached. Oyyyy... Okay, now... promise you won't get angry.
I gave you that tongue and I can rip it out!
And what do you want, my little rat-with-wings?
Oh my God! Don't do that ... feel my heart. Go ahead. I'm dying here ...
She found her home. Maybe it's time I found one too!
So where will you go?
But this invitation came from the Empress herself! It's the social event of the decade! You can't turn it down!
Dmitri ... You must understand that once you take her to Tatiana... well, it's over... nothing can happen between you. She's a princess and you're a commoner.
What do you mean?
Life is funny, isn't it. You find the right girl ... and then you lose her.
Are you feeling all right?
But it's not the money, Vlad.
We did it! We did it, my boy! We're going to see Tatiana at the ballet tonight and we're going to be rich! Rich!
It worked in Odessa...
The "Odessa Dunk"?
If I used the word "bleak" I would be optimistic.
How is our current financial status?
Ah! Let us begin!
See? The Princess is under there ...
Pray he's color-blind...
What do we do now?
Yes. And I hate that in a woman.
Well, she certainly has a mind of her own.
Royalty do not help people with their luggage.
You're a princess...
What a world - a man who was in my position in society is calling a peasant 'Your Highness".
"Wake up, your highness" - we should start getting used to saying it.
Wake up, young lady, that's our train.
Would you have leaned over Rembrant's shoulder and told him to paint faster?
Hurry up with those papers.
Ew. . . the honest type.
She doesn't want to do anything "dishonest". . .
That was your dinner! I do hope there is no cabbage in Paris!
What was that?
We will. We <u>have</u> to. Come on, Vlad - she's out there.
It's no use, Dmitri - we'll never find the right girl!
Run, Anya - go...
I'll show you!
STOP IT! I DID SO KILL THEM! And I'm going to kill Anastasia.
You're insane! You didn't kill the Romonovs - it was the...
The same thing I wanted ten years ago - all the Romonovs dead I got the others, now I have to finish up with that nuisance, Anastasia...
What do you want?!
I know, I know ... you thought I was dead. That's how the history books will remember me - not as the ruler of all of Russia, which I SHOULD HAVE BEEN - but as the guy who was never dead when you expected him to be.
So. You don't want to go to the coronation, eh?
Oh, Dmitri.I wish that I could.
And tell me that she's happy.
Promise me she'll have her home.
That last night in the palace... one boy showed us kindness and courage. You were the boy who saved our lives, weren't you? Please, is there nothing I can do to repay you?
I should go
You are the boy ...
Young man, I...
Empress, no! I will not take the money! I just came to tell you I was sorry...
I want you to have the reward money - you've earned it.
No. Empress, you --
I sent for you because I owe you a debt of gratitude larger than I can ever repay
What I <U>found</U>your was your granddaughter!
Anastasia's music box... She had this all these years... You could have found it...
You! How dare you?! Stop this car immediately!
I'm not Ulo and I won't slow down. But you will listen to me!
Remove him at once.
Please, if you'd just listen...
How much pain will you inflict on an old woman for money?!
I need to speak with the Dowager Empress ...
After all I've done for your family - YOU TRIED TO KILL MEEEEEE ! ! !
I did no such thing!
You gave the orders!
I had nothing to do with it!
Despite being shot, poisoned and thrown into an icy river . . . YES!
Rasputin! You're alive . . .
Oh, heavens, no... but ... She is going to be at the Ballet Russe tonight! That's the Russian Ballet - Russe for Russian, oh those crazy French... they only go to see which dancers will defect.
Perhaps you could convince her?
Oh, heavens I must say... no, no actually, I can't - Tatiana has refused to see any more girls.
Then, you'll take her to see Tatiana?
Oh, heavens - I must say, yes.
Are you impressed with our Anastasia?
Oh good! We haven't seen an Anastasia in several days!
May I present her Royal Highness Princess Anastasia!
It's for my brudder. Alvy Singer! Hey! This is Alvy-
Your girl friend's name is Ralph?
Yeah, I do. It's for my girl friend. Make it out to Ralph.
You don't want my autograph.
Can I have your autograph?
I need a large polo mallet!
This guy's on television.
Gimme a break, will yuh, gimme a break. Jesus Christ!
This guy's on television! Alvy Singer, right? Am I right?
Fellas... you know-Jesus! Come on!
Alvy Singer. It was nice nice... Thanks very much... for everything.
I'm... I'm, uh, I'm Robert Redford.
What's your name?
Once in a while, you know. I mean, you know, every now-
You were on... uh, the... uh, the Johnny Carson, right?
You wouldn't know it. It doesn't matter. What's the difference?
What's your name?
No. Yeah, once in a while. You know, like occasionally.
Hey, you on television?
Not only is he a great agent, but he really gives good meetings.
All the good meetings are taken.
I took a meeting with Freddy. Freddy took a meeting with Charlie. You take a meeting with him.
Well, you take a meeting with him, I'll take a meeting with you if you'll take a meeting with Freddy.
Alvy Singer over here!
This guy, on the Johnny Carson show.
Who's on television?
This is Alvy Singer!
Okay, if that's all that we've been through together means to you, I guess it's better if we just said goodbye, once and for all! You know, it's funny, after all the serious talks and passionate moments that it ends here... in a health food restaurant on Sunset Boulevard. Goodbye, Sunny.
You're like New York. You're an island.
Alvy, you are totally incapable of enjoying life.
It's an important issue.
Well, you only give me books with the word "death" in the title.
You didn't read "Death in Venice" till I gave it to you!
What is so incredibly great about New York? It's a dying city! You-you read "Death in Venice".
You're a thinking person. How can you choose this lifestyle?
Oh, my God! She's right! Why did I turn off Allison Portchnik? She was-she was beautiful. She was willing. She was real... intelligent. Is it the old Groucho Marx joke? That-that I-I just don't wanna belong to any club that would have someone like me for a member?
You're using this conspiracy theory as an excuse to avoid sex with me.
I-I-I-I would leave out the men's- room attendant.
The FBI, and the CIA, and J. Edgar Hoover and oil companies and the Pentagon and the men's-room attendant at the White House?
Then everybody's in in the conspiracy?
L-L-Lyndon Johns Lyndon Johnson is a politician. You know the ethics those guys have? It's like-uh, a notch underneath child molester.
Hey... honey, I don't know Earl Warren.
Yeah, Earl Warren?
Well, why not?
Okay. All right, so whatta yuh saying, now? That e-e-everybody o-o-on the Warren Commission is in on this conspiracy, right?
If they-they recovered the shells from that rifle.
We've been through this.
It-but it-it... doesn't make any sense. He drove past the book depository and the police said conclusively that it was an exit wound. So-how is it possible for Oswald to have fired from two angles at once? It doesn't make sense.
Well, I'm getting tired of it. I need your attention.
H'm, I'm sorry, I can't go through with this, because it-I can't get it off my mind, Allison... it's obsessing me!
Yeah? Allison what?
Do you feel all right?
that I've got to... ah... ah... They're gonna laugh at him for a couple minutes, then I gotta go out there, I gotta ... get laughs, too. How much can they laugh? They-they they're laughed out.
I prefer not to, because... look, they're laughing at him. See, so what are yuh telling me-
Will you relax, please? They're gonna love you, I know.
No, because they're-they're laughing, so I-I-I'd rather not. If you don't mind, I prefer-
No, I'm sorry, I'm not goin'- I can't... I don't wanna go on after that comedian.
So what are you telling me, you're putting on two comics in a row?
No, it can't be, because he's a comic.
Uh ... I mean you're on right after this act.
What do you mean, next?
Oh, comedian. Yes. Oh, uh... you're on next.
Alvy... Alvy Singer. I'm a comedian.
Who are you?
Excuse... excuse me, when do I go on?
I thought just earplugs.
You mean they give awards for that kind o' music?
The Grammys. He's got a lotta records up for awards.
If you must know, it's a hectic time for Tony. The Grammys are tonight.
Air miles, you know. I mean, you know what that does to my stomach?
You mean that... I-I-I-I flew three thousand miles to see you.
The usual, you know. Uh, tryin' t' write. I'm workin' on a play. Jesus. So whatta yuh saying? That you're not comin' back to New York with me?
Alvy, I can't say that that's true at this point in my life. I really just can't say that that's true. I mean, you know how wonderful you are. I mean, you know... you're the reason that I got outta my room and that I was able to sing, and-and- and, you know, get more in touch with my feelings and all that crap. Anyway, look, I don't wanna- Listen, listen, listen, uh h'h, so whatta you up to anyway, huh?
No. Yes, of course I'm mad, because you love me, I know that.
You're mad, aren't you?
Okay. Check, please. Can I -can I... Can I... Can I...
No. We're friends. I wanna remain friends.
I can't enjoy anything unless I... unless everybody is. I-you know, if one guy is starving someplace, that's... you know, I-I... it puts a crimp in my evening. So wanna get married or what?
Alvy, you're incapable of enjoying life, you know that? I mean, your life is New York City. You're just this person. You're like this island unto yourself.
That's right, 'cause it's an important issue.
That's right, that's right. You only gave me books with the word "death" in the titles.
Hey, you didn't read "Death in Venice" till I bought it for yuh.
What's so great about New York? I mean, it's a dying city. You read "Death in Venice."
So whatta you... You're not gonna come back to New York?
Well, whatta you mean? I mean, it's perfectly fine out here. I mean, Tony's very nice and, uh, well, I meet people and I go to parties and- and we play tennis. I mean, that's... that's a very big step for me, you know? I mean... I'm able to enjoy people more.
Why? You wanna live out here all year? It's like living in Munchkin Land.
Oh, Alvy, come on.
You see, I-I've been thinking about it and I think that we should get married.
Oh, no, I just lost a little weight, that's all. Well, you look nice.
You look very pretty.
I guess these are all yours. Impeach, uh, Eisenhower... Impeach Nixon... Impeach Lyndon Johnson... Impeach Ronald Reagan.
Hey, this one's mine, this button. This one, you rem-
You know, I-I-I don't think many couples could handle this. You know, they could just break up and remain friends.
Exactly, but... exactly. Ooooh!
We can always come back together again. Because there's no-there's no problem. 'Cause... Right.
Right. And you-and you know what the beauty part is?
Well, why should I put you through all my moods and hang-ups anyway?
Yeah, and I-I tru- you know, I trust her, because my-my analyst recommended her.
Yeah, my analyst thinks this move is keen for me.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no. I mean, you know, no, no, no, I mean, I think it's really important for us to explore new relationships and stuff like that.
Right. Geez, I feel like there's a great weight off my back. M'mmm.
Remember that day?
This is the first book that I got you.
This "Denial of Death". You remember this?
Now, look, all the books on death and dying are yours and all the poetry books are mine.
There's no-no question in my mind. I think we're doing the mature thing, without any doubt.
Well, uh, Alvy, you wanted to break up just as much as I do.
Oh, it sure has... You know, you wrote your name in all my books, 'cause you knew this day was gonna come.
Well, let's see now... If it has my name on it, then I guess it's mine.
Whose "Catcher in the Rye" is this?
Tsch, I know. A relationship, I think, is-is like a shark, you know? It has to constantly move forward or it dies. And I think what we got on our hands is a dead shark.
Alvy, uh, let's face it. You know something, don't think our relationship is working.
Yeah, she's got a great-lookin' fa- A pat on the androgynous side. But it's...
Don't you think his girl friend's beautiful?
Yeah, and gradually you get old and die. You know it's important to make a little effort once in a while.
It's wonderful. I mean, you know they just watch movies all day.
Oh, good. Okay.
Boy, this is really a nice screening room. It's really a nice room.
I'm into garbage. It's my thing.
Yeah, this place is great.
Nothing at all?
I'm nauseous. Oh, jesus, now I don't get to do the TV show?
Excuse me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Doctor. Uh, Alvy-Alvy, that was the show. They said everything is fine. They found a replacement, so they're going to tape without you.
Well... H-h huh... Oh, good... Yes, I'll tell him.
Oh, oh, no, I can't-I can't eat this. I'm nauseous. If you could-if you could just give me something to get me through the next two hours, you know I-I have to go out to Burbank... and give out an award on a TV show.
It's that they don't throw their garbage away. They make it into television shows.
God, it's so clean out here.
Really? And what is the kick of it? Because I never...
No, no, no that's not it at all. Alvy's giving an award on television. Gee, he talks like he's violating a moral issue sitting here.
...I'm thrilled. As you know, uh... uh, on my agent's advice I sold out, and I'm gonna do an appearance on TV.
Alvy, come on, for your own experience. I mean, you wanna write, why not?
Oh, I'm sure it's a lot of fun, 'cause the Incas did it, you know, and-and they-they-they were a million laughs.
Yeah. Come on. It'd be fun.
Yeah, I know it's sick, but it's new. You know, you didn't say it couldn't be sick.
How can you say that? I mean, who said I-I-I-I said that you, I and that girl from your acting class should sleep together in a threesome.
You never wanna try anything new, Alvy.
Sometimes I think-sometimes I think I should just live with a woman.
You know... it's getting expensive my analyst... for her analyst. She- she's making progress and I'm not making any progress. Her progress is defeating my progress.
I don't know, though, I feel so guilty because Alvy is paying for it, so, you know, so I do feel guilty if I don't go to bed with him. But if I do go to bed with him, it's like I'm going against my own feelings. I don't know I-I can't win.
The incredible thing about it is, I'm paying for her analysis and she's making progress and I'm getting screwed.
But the thing is-I mean, since our discussions here, I feel I have a right to my own feelings. I think you woulda been happy because... uh, uh, I really asserted myself.
I mean... I tried everything, you know, I-I-I put on soft music and my- my red light bulb, and...
And... I don't know... I mean, six months ago I-I woulda done it. I woulda done it, just to please him.
She would not sleep with me the other night, you know, it's-
Constantly! I'd say three times a week. Like the other night, Alvy wanted to have sex.
Hardly ever. Maybe three times a week.
Well, I've been moody and dissatisfied.
Well, we never have any laughs anymore, is the problem.
That day in Brooklyn was the last day I remember really having a great time.
All right, all right, you don't wanna go to the party, so uh, whatta you wanna do?
I'm just not... you know, I don't think I could take a mellow eve- 'cause I-I don't respond well to mellow, you know what I mean, I-I have a tendency to... if I get too mellow, I-I ripen and then rot. You know, and it's-it's not good for my...
I don't know, I thought it might be kind of fun, you know what I mean, it'd be nice to meet some new people.
What's... you... well, what's the matter, You w-wanna go to that party?
Oh, the thing! Oh, the thing... ...yeah... yeah.
yes, we had, uh...
Don't you remember we-we-we discussed that thing that we were-
Remember, we had that thing.
Yeah, well, we have the, I mean, they were just a terrific audience, I mean, you know, it makes it really easy for me, because I can be... huh?
You were-you were sensational. I mean, I-you know, I-I told yuh that if yuh stuck to it, you would be great, and-and, you know, I-I-you- you were sensational.
Oh! My God!
Yeah, I know. Just-just put on the watch, and-and... that thing, and we'll just...
Oh, yeah? What is this, anyway? Let me see. Okay, let's... oooh, God! Oh, you knew I wanted this... God, it's terrific, God!
Check it out.
Here's a real present.
Uh huh. Yeah. Forget it.
Try it... it'll add years to our sex life.
Uh, yeah, uh... t-t-this is more like a present for you, yeah, but it's-
Yeah, hey, why don't yuh try it on?
What is this? Is this a... Present? Are you kidding?
Oh, darn it.
Yeah, but no presents till midnight.
Yeah, but it's real close.
Ah? Oh, well, your birthday's not till tomorrow, honey, I hate to tell yuh.
Well, I had a really good day, you know that? It was just a real fine way to spend my birthday.
Oh, look, look, there's that... that's that's my old house. That's where we used to live.
Hey, can yuh watch the road? Watch the --
-me, my God, it's a great day!
That'd be fun for yuh. Don't you think-
Okay, okay. Okay.
Tsch, why don't we get... why don't we get Rob, and the three of us'll drive into Brooklyn, you know, and we show you the old neighborhood.
Alvy, what about... what if we go away this weekend, and we could-
I don't know.
You know I think that if you let me, maybe I could help you have more fun, you know? I mean, I know it's hard and... Yeah.
It's all right for me, it's been terrific, you know? Better than either one of my marriages. See, 'cause... 'cause there's just something different about you. I don't know what it is, but it's great.
Living together hasn't been so bad, has it?
Oh, no, no, I think we're both much too mature for something like that.
Alvy, let's never break up again. I don't wanna be apart.
I'm sorry. I had the television set had the television-
Oh, I had the radio on.
I mean was there another- I thought I heard a voice.
W-w-whatta you mean?
Was there somebody in your room when I called you?
Oh, yeah. Oh. Oh! Alvy?
Oh, Jesus, really?
Oh, uh, I don't know. I miss you. Tsch.
Whatta you mean, don't go? Whatta- whatta what's the matter? Whatta you expecting termites? What's the matter?
Oh, don't go, okay? Please.
Whatta-whatta yuh joining a minstrel show? Geez. Don't worry! I did it! I killed them both. What- what's the matter? Whatta you- whatta you sad about? You- What'd you want me to do? Capture 'em and rehabilitate 'em?
It's for my complexion.
Hey, what is this? You got black soap?
Honey, there's a spider in your bathroom the size of a Buick.
Well, what are you doing... what are you doing with-
Okay, let me have this.
I think I left it there, I'm sorry.
snow shovel or anything or something.
Oh, I-I left it at your house.
Yep. I didn't think it was that big, but it's a major spider. You got a broom or something with a-
Two... Yeah. Lotta, lotta trouble. There's two of 'em.
Very big spider.
Darling, darling, I've been killing spiders since I was thirty, okay?
Hey, don't squish it, and after it's dead, flush it down the toilet, okay? And flush it a couple o' times.
Is he in the bathroom?
It really is lovely. It's in the bathroom.
Yeah, where is the spider?
I got the good chocolate, Alvy.
Hey, what am I-your son? Whatta you mean? I-I came over to --
Would you like a glass of chocolate milk?
Well, I was in be- It's three o'clock in the morning. You, uh, you got me outta bed, I ran over here, I couldn't get a taxi cab. You said it was an emergency, and I didn't ge- I ran up the stairs. Hell - I was a lot more attractive when the evening began. Look, uh, tell- Whatta you- Are you going with a right-wing rock-and- roll star? Is that possible?
Alvy, you're a little hostile, you know that? Not only that, you look thin and tired.
It's wonderful. Then why don'tcha get William F. Buckley to kill the spider?
Well, I like to try to get all points of view.
What is this? What are you, since when do you read the "National Review"? What are you turning in to?
Oh, humdinger. When- Well, I got a wonderful idea. Why don'tcha get the guy who took you to the rock concert, we'll call him and he can come over and kill the spider. You know, it's a-
It was just great!
Oh, yeah, really? Really? How-how'd you like it? Was it-was it, I mean, did it... was it heavy? Did it achieve total heavy-ocity? Or was it, uh...
Jesus. All right, gimme a magazine. I- 'cause I'm a little tired. You know, you, you joke with-about me, you make fun of me, but I'm prepared for anything. An emergency, a tidal wave, an earthquake. Hey, what is this? What? Did you go to a rock concert?
I know, I know, and a first-aid kit and a fire extinguisher.
I told you a thousand times you should always keep, uh, a lotta insect spray. You never know who's gonna crawl over.
Kill it! For Go- What's wrong with you? Don't you have a can of Raid in the house?
I can't sleep with a live thing crawling around in the bathroom.
My God, I mean, you know how I am about insects.
That's what you got me here for at three o'clock in the morning, 'cause there's a spider in the bathroom?
There's a big black spider in the bathroom.
There's a spider in the bathroom.
Are you okay? What's the matter? Are you all right? What-
What's- It's me, open up.
I just think we oughta call this relationship quits!
I'm following you and David, if you-
And what are you doing following me around for, anyway?
David! David! I can't believe this!
A bit rapidly. I don't care what you say about David, he's a perfectly fine teacher!
Adult education is such junk! The professors are so phony. How can you do it?
And, Alvy... and then I told her about how I didn't think you'd ever really take me seriously, because you don't think that I'm smart enough.
She said, "Will it change my wife." You heard that because you were there so I'm not crazy.
Life. I said, "life."
You said, "Will it change..." Wife. Will it change...
No, I didn't. I said, "Will it change my life," Alvy.
Yeah, but you said, "Will it change my wife"!
Will it change my life?
Will it change your wife?
Well, she said that I should probably come five times a week. And you know something? I don't think I mind analysis at all. The only question is, will it change my wife?
Tsch, what'd the doctor say?
Oh, and God, Alvy, I did... this really terrible thing to him. Because then when he sang it was in this real high-pitched voice.
Sinatra had gl- You never said Sinatra had glasses. So whatta you saying that I-I'm suffocating you?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, you. Because in the dream... I break Sinatra's glasses.
Whatta you mean? Me?
She said, your name was Alvy Singer.
Well, well, sure... because he's a singer and you're a singer, you know, so it's perfect. So you're trying to suffocate yourself. It-it makes perfect sense. Uh, uh, that's a perfect analytic... kind of insight.
and I keep, you know, it's-
Yeah, and he's strangling me...
In-in... Alvy, in my dream Frank Sinatra is holding his pillow across my face and I can't breathe.
I whine. I-I-I sit and I whine.
You cried? I've never once cried. Fantastic...
Oh, I told her my dream and then I cried.
That's amazing. I-I-I... I've been goin' for fifteen years, I-you know, I don't got... nothing like that in-
Tsch. Rea- All this happened in the first hour?
And then I remembered when I was a kid how I accidentally saw my parents making love.
Well, she said that I was very guilty about my impulses toward marriage, and-and children.
G-go on, I'm interested.
Me? I'm-I'm one of the few males who suffers from that, so, so... you know.
And then she mentioned penis envy... Did you know about that?
And I didn't have to lie down on the couch, Alvy, she had me sitting up. So I told her about-about the-the family and about my feelings toward men and about my relationship with my brother.
Oh, it was... really weird. But she's a very nice woman.
Oh, yeah? How'd it go?
Well, listen, that's, a nice bi-it's a biblical name. Right? W-What does he call you? Bathsheba?
It's his name.
David? You call your teacher David?
You've always had hostility toward David ever since I mentioned him!
Next thing you know he'll find you keen and peachy, you know? Next thing you know he's got his hand on your ass!
Who cares? Who cares?
"Neat"! There's that- What are you- twelve years old? That's one o' your Chippewa Falls expressions! "He thinks I'm neat."
We're not having an affair. He's married. He just happens to think I'm neat.
Hey, don't knock masturbation! It's sex with someone I love.
Oh, well, now we're finally getting to a subject you know something about!
What's the difference? It's all mental masturbation.
"Existential Motifs in Russian Literature"! You're really close.
Oh, stop it. But you were having an affair with your college professor. That jerk that teaches that incredible crap course "Contemporary Crisis in Western Man"!
Yeah-well, you wanted to keep the relationship flexible, remember? It's your phrase.
Yeah-well, I didn't start out spying. I-I thought I'd surprise yuh. Pick you up after school.
That is the worst kind of paranoia.
Paranoid? I'm looking at you. You got your arms around another guy.
Do you realize how paranoid you are?
Following is different. I was spying.
Well, what is your definition of following?
Why? 'Cause I... was walkin' along a block behind you staring at you? That's not following!
You followed me!
I didn't follow you!
You followed me. I can't believe it!
It's Easter. You know, we'll have a nice dinner, we'll sit down and eat. I think they're gonna really like you.
No, I don't think so. No, I don't think they're gonna hate you at all. On the contrary, I think-
Yeah, I know, they'll hate me immediately. Thank you.
Oh, I'm really, uh, looking forward to tomorrow. I mean, you know, I think that it'll be really nice to meet Mother and Father.
You're so sure about it.
Well, the twelve o'clock show is completely different than the nine.
Yeah. Yeah. And you know something? I think that I'm starting to get more of your references, too.
C-c-coll- College audiences are so wonderful.
Alvy, you were... Alvy, you were just great, I'm not kidding. It was- You were so neat.
Hey, what is this-an interview? We're supposed to be making love.
Were you always funny?
so if I get a laugh from a person who's high, it doesn't count. You know-'cause they're always laughin'.
Well, it ruins it for me if you have grass because, you know, I'm, like, a comedian-
Well, I need grass and so do you.
Yeah, but that's not-that's no good. I want the whole thing.
Oh, you have my body.
Is it my imagination or are you just going through the motions?
Let's just do it, all right?
I don't know, but you seem sort of distant.
No, I'm fine.
I don't know. You- It's like you're- you're removed.
M'm, wait, I got a great idea. Hang in there for a second. I got a little-little artifact. A little erotic artifact, that-that I brought up from the city, which I think, uh, is gonna be perfect. I just... there... There's a little Old New Orleans... essence. Now-now we can go about our business here and we can even develop photographs if we want to. There, now there. M'mmm. M'mmm. Hey, is something wrong?
Oh, no, Alvy, please. Alvy, please. M'mrnm.
No, no, no, what... You can once, you can live without it once. Come on.
What are you doing?
Oh, come, you don't need that.
Oh, come on, look who's talking. You've been seeing a psychiatrist for fifteen years. You should smoke some o' this. You'd be off the couch in no time.
Well, I'll give you a shot of sodium pentothal. You can sleep through it.
Well, what's the difference, anyway?
Oh, you-you have to be artificially relaxed before we can go to bed?
It relaxes me.
Me, no. You... I-I-you know, if I have grass or alcohol or anything I get unbearably wonderful. I get too, too wonderful for words. You know, I don't-I don't know why you have to, uh, get high every time we make love.
Well, have you ever made love high?
Yeah, grass, right? The illusion that it will make a white woman more like Billie Holiday.
Well, okay. Well, listen, I'm gonna get a cigarette, okay?
No, don't be silly. What-what do we need other people for? You know, we should-we should just turn out the lights, you know, and play hide and seek or something.
What? Hey, listen, what-what do you think? Do you think we should, uh, go to that-that party in Southampton tonight?
Just don't take any course where they make you read Beowulf.
Does this sound like a good course? Uh, "Modern American Poetry"? Uh, or, uh-let's see now... maybe I should, uh, take "Introduction to the Novel."
'Cause adult education's a wonderful thing. You meet a lotta interesting professors. You know, it's stimulating.
Then why are you always pushing me to take those college courses like I was dumb or something?
Hey, don't be ridiculous.
You don't think I'm smart enough to be serious about.
It's-it's got bad plumbing and bugs. Jesus, I'll-My accountant will write it off as a tax deduction, I'll pay for it.
Yes, it is.
That place is four hundred dollars a month?
That little apartment is four hundred dollars a month, Alvy.
It's different 'cause you keep your own apartment. Because you know it's there, we don't have to go to it, we don't have to deal with it, but it's like a-a-a free-floating life raft... that we know that we're not married.
How is it any different?
No-what, what...? I... we live together, we sleep together, we eat together. Jesus, you don't want it to be like we're married, do yuh?
I guess you think that I talked you into something, huh?
Ye-ah. Was it... It was yours actually, but, uh, I approved it immediately.
How- I don't want you to live with me? How- Whose idea was it?
You don't want me to live with you?
All right, granted, it has bad plumbing and bugs, but you-you say that like it's a negative thing. You know, bugs are-are-uh, entomology is a... ...rapidly growing field.
That's right, and it's got bad plumbing and bugs.
Yeah, I know it's small.
I have a tiny apartment.
Yeah, but you-you got a nice apartment.
Well, I mean, I'm moving in with you, that's why.
Yeah, bu-bu-but why?
Whatta you mean? You're not gonna give up your own apartment, are you?
Don't you think I do?
I love you. You know I lo-ove you, I-I love you. I-I have to invent- Of course I love you.
I-uh, love is, uh, is too weak a word for what...
Well, I certainly... I think that's very- Yeah, yeah... yeah. Do you love me?
I know you've only known me a short while.
That's the key question.
Do I love you?
You- Do you love me?
Come on. Yeah. You know what? You know, I like you, I really mean it. I really do like you.
You know what I mean? Like the tip o'your nose, and if I stroke your teeth or your kneecaps... you get excited.
Uh... uh, you're-you're exceptional in bed because you got -you get pleasure in every part of your body when I touch you.
Well, what does-what does that mean? I don't know what that is.
Unbelievably sexy. Yes, you are. Because... you know what you are? You're-you're polymorphously perverse.
No, I'm not.
You are extremely sexy.
You see, like you and I...
And there's the winner of the Truman Capote look-alike contest.
No, I'm serious. I just got my mustache wet.
Yeah, he's the Mafia. Linen Supply Business or Cement and Contract, you know what I mean?
Oh! Italian, right?
Oh, that's hilarious. They're back from Fire Island. They're... they're sort of giving it a chance-you know what I mean?
Look at these guys.
M'hm. Yeah. Yeah.
There's-there's-there's-there's Mr. When-in-the-Pink, Mr. Miami Beach, there, you know? He's the latest! just came back from the gin-rummy farm last night. He placed third.
Look, look at that guy.
You know, and the miserable is everyone else. That's-that's all. So- so when you go through life you should be thankful that you're miserable, because that's- You're very lucky... to be... ...to be miserable.
I don't-don't know how they get through life. It's amazing to me.
And blind people, crippled...
...you know, they're- The-the horrible would be like, uh, I don't know, terminal cases, you know?
Those are the two categories...
I've a very pessimistic view of life. You should know this about me if we're gonna go out, you know. I-I-I feel that life is-is divided up into the horrible and the miserable.
big subject with me, yeah.
Yeah, 'cause I-I'm, you know, I'm, I'm obsessed with-with, uh, with death, I think. Big-
That's, uh... that's pretty serious stuff there.
I-I-I'm gonna buy you these books, I think, because I-I think you should read them. You know, instead of that cat book.
M'hm. You're not gonna believe this, but-
Oh, I don't know, I don't really. I don't do it very often, you know, just sort of, er... relaxes me at first.
I tried to take my pants off over my head... ...my ear.
No, no, I-I-i, uh, I don't use any major hallucinogenics because I took a puff like five years ago at a party and
Here, you want some?
No, that was the most fun I've ever had without laughing.
Good? I was-
You're really nuts. I don't know, you really thought it was good? Tell me.
Really. I mean it. I-I'll never play the piano again.
No. You're a wreck.
Yeah, I'm-I'm-I'm a wreck.
"There goes another novel." Jesus, you were great.
As Balzac said...
M'm, that was so nice. That was nice.
My first... Yes, she was nice, but you know, uh, it was my fault. I was just... I was too crazy.
Oh. And your first wife was Allison?
Nothing that a few mega-vitamins couldn't cure.
Yeah... oh, uh, and I'm gonna have a pastrami on white bread with, uh, mayonnaise and tomatoes and lettuce. Tsch, so, uh, your second wife left you and, uh, were you depressed about that?
I'm gonna have a corned beef.
We can digest our-
And we'll digest our food better.
Oh, all right.
And-and uh, there's gonna be all that tension. You know, we never kissed before and I'll never know when to make the right move or anything. So we'll kiss now we'll get it over with and then we'll go eat. Okay?
Yeah, why not, because we're just gonna go home later, right?
Gimme a kiss.
Hey, listen, listen.
Yeah, you know something? I never even took a lesson, either.
Really, do you think so, really?
No, I'm not gonna letcha. You have a great voice.
No, I'm gonna quit!
No, they didn't. You have a wonderful voice.
Whatta you mean, a tad restless? Oh, my God, I mean, they hated me.
Oh, listen, so the audience was a tad restless.
I was awful. I'm so ashamed! I can't sing.
you're gonna like night clubs, they're really a lotta fun.
That's okay, 'cause I know exactly what that's like. Listen-
it's my first time.
No, so help me.
Oh, no-I mean, I'm just a-auditioning sort of at club. I don't-
You're gonna sing? Do you sing? Well, no, it isn't No kidding? this is my first time. Oh, really? Where? I'd like to come. Oh, no, no, no, no, no! No, I'm interested!
But I'm thinking about getting some cats, you know, and then they... Oh, wait a second-oh, no, no, I mean oh, shoot! No, Saturday night I'm gonna- gonna sing. Yeah.
think that's, uh-
what I mean?
Yeah, I meet a lotta jerks, too.
Well, I mean, I meet a lot of... jerks, you know-
Gee, boy, what do you have? You have plague?
Oh, you... you're very popular, I can see.
Oh... nothing. Not-no, no!
Oh, I'm sorry, wait a minute, I have something. Well, what about Saturday night?
Me? Oh, uh. No.
You know, I gotta get there and begin whining soon... otherwise I- Hey... well, are you busy Friday night?
Well, I don't know. I mean, I guess- I guess you must be sorta late, huh?
Yeah, yeah, I sorta dabble around, you know.
So, did you do shoot the photographs in there or what?
Yeah, well... you- She hates Jews. She thinks that they just make money, but let me tell yuh, I mean, she's the one yeah, is she ever. I'm tellin' yuh.
Oh, thank you.
Well, uh... You're what Grammy Hall would call a real Jew.
Yeah. Oh, God bless!
Fifteen years, yeah.
Fifteen years, huh?
'cause, uh, you never know what's gonna happen.
Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I see. I guess-
You know, I don't like to show my body to a man of my gender-
Oh, I see, I see.
'Cause I don't like to get naked in front of another man, you know-it's, uh...
Me? No, no, no, 'cause I never shower in a public place.
Well, didn't you take, uh... uh, a shower at the club?
No, I know, but... but, you know, I'm all perspired and everything.
Well, I mean, you don't have to, you know.
...and... uh, yeah, uh... uh, you know, I-I-I...
Oh, really? Oh, well... uh, uh, maybe, uh, maybe, we, uh...
Yeah, it's a great story, though, I mean, I... I... it really made my day. Hey, I think I should get outta here, you know, 'cause I think I'm imposing, you know...
Narcolepsy, right, right. Right. So, anyway, so... George, uh, went to the union, see, to get his free turkey, be-because, uh, the union always gave George this big turkey at Christmas time because he was... shell-shocked, you know what I mean, in the First World War. Anyway, so, so... George is standing in line, oh, just a sec... uh, getting his free turkey, but the thing is, he falls asleep and he never wakes up. So, so... so, he's dead ... he's dead. Yeah. Oh, dear. Well, terrible, huh, wouldn't you say? I mean, that's pretty unfortunate.
Sadie? Oh, well, Sadie... Sadie met Grammy through, uh, through Grammy's brother George. Uh, George was real sweet, you know, he had that thing. What is that thing where you, uh, where you, uh, fall asleep in the middle of a sentence, you know-what is it? Uh...
Well, who's Sadie?
Yeah, right, Duane-and over there is Grammy Hall, and that's Sadie.
Oh... oh, well, you see now now, uh, that's my dad, that's Father-and that's my... brother, Duane.
Uh, I hate to tell yuh, this is nineteen seventy-five, you know that "neat" went out, I would say, at the turn of the century. Who-who are-who are those photos on the wall?
Right. Well, I don't know, I mean, uh, some of her poems seem - neat, you know.
Interesting poetess whose tragic suicide was misinterpreted as romantic, by the college-girl mentality.
Fifteen-aw, come on, you're... yeah, really?
Yeah, uh, I'm gonna give him one more year and then I'm goin' to Lourdes.
Y-y-yeah, just for fifteen years.
Oh, you see an analyst?
Sure, I got... I got nothing, uh, nothing till my analyst's appointment.
No, I got time.
No, no, that'll be fine. I don't mind. Sure.
Hey, well, listen... hey, you wanna come upstairs and, uh... and have a glass of wine and something? Aw, no, I mean... I mean, you don't have to, you're probably late and everything else ...
I'll see yuh.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Well... thank you again.
Jesus, my-my grammy... n-never gave gifts, you know. She-she was too busy getting raped by Cossacks.
I know, it's pretty silly, isn't it?
Yeah, I know.
You're jo- Whatta yuh kid- What did you do, grow up in a Norman Rockwell painting?
Yeah, my grammy.
Who? Grammy? Grammy Hall?
And I love what you're wearin'.
You're the worst driver I've ever seen in my life... that's including any place... the worst... Europe, United... any place... Asia.
Well, thanks, thank you. You-you're a wonderful tennis player.
Yeah, thanks. Thanks a lot. Well...
You want your gear? Here you go.
Huh? Oh... yeah.
You want your tennis stuff?
Don't be funny.
That's okay, you... we-we can walk to the curb from here.
Huh? Oh, yeah.
You keep it nice. Can I ask you, is this-is this a sandwich?
Yeah. I got, uh, I got a license but I have too much hostility.
Oh, you do?
Do I drive? Uh, no, I gotta-I gotta problem with driving.
Yeah... so, listen-you drive?
I'll getcha a piece.
Okay, that's good.
No, no, no, no, you just... just watch the road. I'll get it-
Well, where is it? I-
No, no thanks. Hey, don't-
Uh, don't worry, I'm a very- a very good driver. So, listen-hey, you want some gum, anyway?
Uh, you're driving a-
No, Chippewa Falls.
I, uh... well, you're not from New York, right?
Well, I do commercials, sort of...
Oh - you're an actress.
Oh, I'm in her acting class.
So, how long do you know Janet? Where do you know her from?
I mean, I can go uptown, too. I live uptown, but... uh, what the hell, I mean, it'd be nice having company, you know I mean, I hate driving alone.
Yeah, well, I'm, but I...
Uh, well, you just said you were going downtown.
Oh, well, I'm goin' uptown, too.
Down- I'm-I'm goin' uptown.
Me? Oh, downtown!
Sure. W-w-w-which way yuh goin'?
I don't... I don't... Geez, I don't know, I've... I wa- This... yeah, I got this VW out there... What a jerk, yeah. Would you like a lift?
You have a car? So... I don't understand why... if you have a car, so then-then wh-why did you say "Do you have a car?"... like you wanted a lift?
Oh, no, I have a car.
No, um... I was gonna take a cab.
Oh, why-uh... y-y-you gotta car?
Uh... you-you wanna lift?
Oh, yeah? So do you. Oh, God, whatta- whatta dumb thing to say, right? I mean, you say it, "You play well," and right away... I have to say well. Oh, oh... God, Annie. Well... oh, well... la-de-da, la-de- da, la-la.
You-you play... very well.
Well, bye. She laughs and backs up slowly toward the door.
Hi. Oh, hi. Hi.
Hi. Hi, hi.
Oh, I'd say so. You married-
Well, no... not just, not only.
Oh, that's right. That you really like those New York girls.
La-de-da. If I-if anyone had ever told me that I would be taking out a girl who used expressions like "la- de-da"...
Oh, really? Well, la-de-da!
Yeah, I-I think you're pretty lucky I came along.
He was creepy.
Hey, that was last year.
Oh, come on-I mean, I was still younger.
Oh, well, let's see, there was Dennis, from Chippewa Falls High School.
Well, then, w-who was?
Oh... no, no, no, no, uh, uh. No.
So, so-well, here's what I wanna know. W-what... Am I your first big romance?
All right, here! Oh, God, it's disgusting!
It'll make great- Alvy, be- Alvy, it'll be wonderful... Ooooh, lovely!
All right! All right! All right! All right! Whatta yuh mean? Are yuh gonna take pictures now?
Great! Great! Goddammit! Ooooh! These are... p-p-p-pick this lobster up. Hold it, please!
You know, I-I think... if I could pry this door off... We shoulda gotten steaks 'cause they don't have legs. They don't run around.
Yeah. I'm gonna get my... I'm gonna get my camera.
Annie, there's a big lobster behind the refrigerator. I can't get it out. This thing's heavy. Maybe if I put a little dish of butter sauce here with a nutcracker, it will run out the other side, you know what I mean?
Okay, it's in. It's definitely in the pot!
Oh, God! Here yuh go! Oh, good, now he'll think- Aaaah! Okay.
Gimme! Gimme! Let me do it! What- what's he think we're gonna do, take him to the movies?
I can't! I can't put him in the pot. I can't put a live thing in hot water.
Talk to him. You speak shellfish! Hey, look... put it in the pot.
Look! Look, one crawled behind the refrigerator. It'll turn up in our bed at night. Will you get outta here with that thing? Jesus!
Oooh! Here! Here!
Don't give it to me. Don't!
Oh, all right. All right! It's all right. Here.
If they're only babies, then you pick 'em up.
Come on, Alvy, they're only baby ones, for God's sake.
Well, maybe we should just call the police. Dial nine-one-one, it's the lobster squad.
Stop it! Don't... don't do that! There.
Look, I told you it was a... mistake to ever bring a live thing in the house.
Alvy, now don't panic. Please.
I mean, you've been married before, you know how things can get. You were very hot for Allison at first.
I know. Well, Alvy, it'll pass, it'll pass, it's just that I'm going through a phase, that's all.
It's always some kind of an excuse. It's- You know, you used to think that I was very sexy. What... When we first started going out, we had sex constantly... We're-we're probably listed in the Guinness Book of World Records.
I know, well, it's just that- you know, I mean, I-I-I-I gotta sing tomorrow night, so I have to rest my voice.
What-what-I don't... It's not natural! We're sleeping in a bed together. You know, it's been a long time.
I-you know, I don't wanna.
What-what-what-what's the matter?
Yeah, 'cause it's supposed to.
That movie makes me feel guilty.
You? You kiddin'? If the Gestapo would take away your Bloomingdale's charge card, you'd tell 'em everything.
M'm, I don't know, sometimes I ask myself how I'd stand up under torture.
Boy, those guys in the French Resistance were really brave, you know? Got to listen to Maurice Chevalier sing so much.
Okay, I'm very sorry. My sexual problem! Okay, my sexual problem! Huh?
I-I-I mean, I'm comparatively normal for a guy raised in Brooklyn.
Well, he's spitting on my neck! You know, he's spitting on my neck when he talks.
Stop it, Alvy!
Hey, you... everybody in line at the New Yorker has to know our rate of intercourse?
I know- because of our sexual problem, right?
You know what a hostile gesture that is to me?
The alarm clock.
How can you possibly oversleep?
I missed my therapy. I overslept.
Well, stop listening to him.
I'm-I'm-I'm gonna have a stroke.
H'h, that's a polite word for what you are.
Well, I'm sorry, I-I can't... I-I- I've gotta see a picture exactly from the start to the finish, 'cause- 'cause I'm anal.
Oh, come on, we've seen it. I'm not in the mood to see a four-hour documentary on Nazis.
I don't know now. You-you wanna go to another movie? So let's go see The Sorrow and the Pity.
Alright. All right, all right, so whatta you wanna do?
Hey, can we not stand here and argue in front of everybody, 'cause I get embarrassed.
Look, while we're talking we could be inside, you know that?
Two hours? No, u-uh, I'm going in. I'm going in.
You wanna get coffee for two hours or something? We'll go next-
In the middle? We'll only miss the titles. They're in Swedish.
No, I'm sorry, I can't do it. We- we've blown it already. I-you know, uh, I-I can't go in in the middle.
Two minutes, Alvy.
I'm not getting my period. Jesus, every time anything out of the ordinary happens, you think that I'm getting my period!
Hey, you are in a bad mood. You-you- you must be getting your period.
Okay. Please, I have a headache, all right?
Deal! I'm dealing with two guys named Cheech!
You're gonna hafta learn to deal with it.
Bad mood? I'm standing with the cast of "The Godfather."
Alright, alright, I'm in a bad mood, okay?
I-i-i-i-it's all right, fellas. Jesus, what'd you do, come by way of the Panama Canal?
Right. Tsch, well, I have to-I have t-o go now, Duane, because I-I'm due back on the planet earth.
I tell you this because, as an artist, I think you'll understand. Sometimes when I'm driving... on the road at night... I see two headlights coming toward me. Fast. I have this sudden impulse to turn the wheel quickly, head-on into the oncoming car. I can anticipate the explosion. The sound of shattering glass. The... flames rising out of the flowing gasoline.
Can I confess something?
Oh, yeah? Terrific.
This is my room.
Oh, hi, Duane, how's it goin'?
Tell the folks where you are today, Donald.
Why couldn't you have been more like Donald? Now, there was a model boy!
Six-year-old boys don't have girls on their minds.
Why, I was just expressing a healthy sexual curiosity.
You should be ashamed of yourself.
What'd I do?
Step up here!
What'd I do?
Well, I'm-I'm gonna take another in a series of cold showers.
Where are you going?
Oswald and ghosts.
I have a headache.
Oh, you got a headache!
My head is throbbing.
Hey, come on, it's quiet now. We can- we can start again.
Okay, okay, my analyst just thinks I'm too tense. Where's the goddamn Valium?
Well, I can't li- We can't have this discussion all the time. The country makes me nervous. There's... You got crickets and it-it's quiet... there's no place to walk after dinner, and... uh, there's the screens with the dead moths behind them, and... uh, yuh got the-the Manson family possibly, yuh got Dick and Terry-
I'm too tense. I need a Valium. My analyst says I should live in the country and not in New York.
Jesus, last night it was some guy honking his car horn. I mean, the city can't close down. You know, what-whatta yuh gonna do, h-have 'em shut down the airport, too? No more flights so we can have sex?
Dammit! I was so close.
Don't get upset!
Oh, I'm sorry!
There are people out there from The New Yorker magazine. My God! What would they think?
"Why-why do you always r-reduce my animal urges to psychoanalytic categories? he said as he removed her brassiere..."
Alvy, don't! You're using sex to express hostility.
What's fascinating is that it's physical. You know, it's one thing about intellectuals, they prove that you can be absolutely brilliant and have no idea what's going on. But on the other hand... the body doesn't lie, as-as we now know.
Alvy, what is so fascinating about a group of pituitary cases trying to stuff the ball through a hoop?
Hey, you wouldn't believe this. Two minutes ago, the Knicks are ahead fourteen points, and now... they're ahead two points.
Here you are. There's people out there.
No jokes-these are friends, okay?
Oh, really, I heard that Commentary and Dissent had merged and formed Dysentery.
I'm so tired of spending evenings making fake insights with people who work for Dysentery.
Is that Paul Goodman? No. And be nice to the host because he's publishing my book. Hi, Doug! Douglas Wyatt. "A Foul-Rag-and-Bone Shop-of- the-Heart."
'Cause I wanna watch the Knicks on television.
Why are you so hostile?
Yeah, two more chairs and they got a dining-room set.
Uh, oh, I don't know. It might have been Leopold and Loeb. Hello. Oh, hi... Uh, no, what-what's the matter? What-what-what? You sound terrible... No, what- Sure I- Whatta yuh what kind of an emergency?... No, well, stay there. Stay there, I'll come over right now. I'll come over right now. Just stay there, I'll come right over.
Who said that?
I think-I think there's too much burden placed on the orgasm, you know, to make up for empty areas in life.
I mean that as a compliment.
Oh, tsch, thank you. H'm.
Oh, sex with you is really a kafkaesque experience.
Oh, no, no, don't be... tsch... don't be silly. You know, I'm startin' it-I'm startin' to get some feeling back in my jaw now.
I hope you don't mind that I took so long to finish.
Yeah, were yuh? I was-I was at an Alice Cooper thing where six people were rushed to the hospital with bad vibes.
It's unbelievably trans-plendid! I was at the Stones concert in Altamount when they killed that guy, remember?
I can't get with any religion that advertises in Popular Mechanics. Look- there's God coming outta the men's room.
I'm a Rosicrucian myself.
Really? It must be a tremendous hem.
He's God! I mean, this man is God! He's got millions of followers who would crawl all the way across the world just to touch the hem of his garment.
I can think of another word.
The only word for this is trans- plendid. It's trans-plendid.
Tsch, a few.
You have a raccoon?
Me? No, no. I-I couldn't make it that ni- My-my raccoon had hepatitis.
You catch Dylan?
Man, that's great. That's just great.
Well, that's funny, because I happen to have Mr. McLuhan right here. So... so, here, just let me- I mean, all right. Come over here... a second.
Oh, do yuh?
Wait a minute! Really? Really? I happen to teach a class at Columbia called "TV Media and Culture"! So I think that my insights into Mr. McLuhan- well, have a great deal of validity.
I mean, d- He can give you- Do you hafta give it so loud? I mean, aren't you ashamed to pontificate like that? And- and the funny part of it is, M- Marshall McLuhan, you don't know anything about Marshall McLuhan's... work!
Wait a minute, why can't I give my opinion? It's a free country!
...as opposed to a print...
What I wouldn't give for a large sock o' horse manure.
It's the influence of television. Yeah, now Marshall McLuhan deals with it in terms of it being a-a high, uh, high intensity, you understand? A hot medium... as opposed to a...
I never read that. That was-that was Henry James, right? Novel, uh, the sequel to Turn of the Screw? My Sexual...
Probably met by answering an ad in the New York Review of Books. "Thirtyish academic wishes to meet woman who's interested in Mozart, James Joyce and sodomy." Whatta you mean, our sexual problem?
It's a narrow view.
Probably on their first date, right?
I'd like to hit this guy on a gut level.
It's like Samuel Beckett, you know- I admire the technique but he doesn't... he doesn't hit me on a gut level.
What are you depressed about?
without getting... well, let's put it this way...
Key word here is "indulgent."
Like all that Juliet of the Spirits or Satyricon, I found it incredibly... indulgent. You know, he really is. He's one of the most indulgent film makers. He really is-
He's screaming his opinions in my ear.
You know, it must need to have had its leading from one thought to another. You know what I'm talking about?
Yeah, I love it there.
Uh, you guys are still-uh, you're still New Yorkers.
Right before his un-American thing.
This is a great house, really. Everything. Saunas, Jacuzzis, three tennis courts. You know who the original owners were? Nelson Eddy, then Legs Diamond. Then you know who lived here?
This is, uh, Shawn, and, uh... Bob and Petronia.
Thank you very much. It's a pleasure.
You stopped smoking sixteen years ago, is that what you said? Oh, I-I don't understand. Are you joking, or what?
Whatta you mean?
Sixteen years ago.
Oh, when'd you quit smoking?
I'm not myself since I stopped smoking.
What are you making such a big deal about? They're only lobsters. Look, you're a grown man, you know how to pick up a lobster.
Since you put it that way. It's hard for me to refuse. ...have a, I have a terrific problem with authority, you know. I'm... it's not your fault. Don't take it personal.
Just give me the license, please.
Pick up the license. You have to ask nicely 'cause I've had an extremely rough day. You know, my girl friend-
Don't give me your life story just pick up the license.
Sure. just don't-don't get angry, you know what I mean? 'Cause I-I have - I have my-my license here. You know, it's a rented car. And I've...
May I see your license, please?
Officer, I know what you're gonna say. I'm-I'm not a great driver, you know, I-I have some problems with- with-with-
Keeps out the alpha rays, Max. You don't get old.
Max, are we driving through plutonium?
Oh, I did Shakespeare in the Park, Max. I got mugged. I was playing Richard the Second and two guys with leather jackets stole my leotard.
You're an actor, Max. You should be doing Shakespeare in the Park.
Twins, Max. Sixteen-year-olds. Can you imagine the mathematical possibilities?
Yeah. I had the feeling that I got you at a bad moment. You know, I heard high-pitched squealing.
Imagine my surprise when I got your call, Max.
We're gonna operate together.
Uri Geller must be on the premises someplace.
Hey, you guys are wearin' white. It must be in the stars.
Hi. How do you do.
No, no, I came out here to get some shock therapy, but there was an energy crisis, so I... He's my-my food taster. Have you two met?
Oh, he-he didn't say anything.
I'll handle it. I'll handle it. Hi.
If she comes over here, Max, my brain is going to turn into guacamole.
Yeah, intensive care ward. My God-hey, Max, I think she's... I think she's giving me the eye.
And I think they just came back from Masters and Johnson.
How do you like this couple, Max?
Yeah, you're used to the kind with the- with the shopping bags walking through Central Park with the surgical masks on muttering.
There are no twos, Max.
Yeah, she's a ten, Max, and that's great for you because you're-you're used to twos, aren't you?
Visible panty line. Max, she is gorgeous.
The one with the V.P.L.
Oh, no, no, that's bullshit, Max. He goes with that girl over there.
I think he has a little thing for Annie.
What difference does that make?
Whee, you shoulda told me it was Tony Lacey's party.
I even brought a road map to get us to the bathroom.
You like this house, Max?
Oh, Max... no, I maybe I better lie down.
How about a ginger ale?
No, no-my, you know, my stomach felt queasy all morning. I just started getting...
You wanna lie down?
I don't know, I mean, I-
You all right?
Well, sit down.
I don't know, I just got-I got very dizzy... I feel dizzy, Max.
What's the matter?
Yeah, well, that's why this machine is dynamite.
Great, but nobody laughs at it 'cause your jokes aren't funny.
We do the show live in front of an audience.
Give me a tremendous laugh here, Charlie.
Yeah, I know; but you're adding fake laughs.
Max, I've got a hit series.
Do you realize how immoral this all is?
Look, now, Charlie, give me a big laugh here.
While you're out here, Max, I want you to see some of my TV show. And we're invited to a big Christmas party.
There's no economic crime, you know, but there's-there's ritual, religious- cult murders, you know, there's wheat- germ killers out here.
Max, there's no crime, there's no mugging.
Right-well, Santa Claus will have sunstroke.
Yeah, and always over the most ridiculous things.
What kind of good memories, Max? Your mother and father fighting all the time.
I have some very good memories there.
Yeah, well, I used to lose my glasses a lot.
Yes, I remember. He was all schoolyard. They threw him a football once, he tried to dribble it.
Right. I was a great athlete. Tell her, Max, I was the best, I was all schoolyard.
We can show her the schoolyard.
Yeah, the neighborhood's gonna be great.
You'll total the whole car.
Yeah, watch the road!
Sun is bad for yuh. Everything our parents said was good is bad. Sun, milk, red meat, college...
Max, if we lived in California, we could play outdoors every day, in the sun.
Don't you see? The rest of the country looks upon New York like we're-we're left-wing Communist, Jewish, homosexual, pornographers. I think of us that way, sometimes, and I-I live here.
No, no, no, Max, that's a very convenient out. Every time some group disagrees with you it's because of anti-Semitism.
But the- I'm not discussing politics or economics. This is foreskin.
Max, the city is terribly worried.
Right, right, so g-get back to what we were discussing, the failure of the country to get behind New York City is-is anti-Semitism.
Max, my serve is gonna send yuh to the showers-
I'm gonna meet her in front of the Beekman. I think I have a few minutes left. Right?
Right, Max, forget it. Aren't you gonna be late for meeting Annie?
No, I cannot. You keep bringing it up, but I don't wanna live in a city where the only cultural advantage is that you can make a right turn on a red light.
We move to sunny L.A. All of show business is out there, Max.
Forget it, Max.
Let's get the hell outta this crazy city.
Right, Max. California, Max.
No, I don't! You know, I was in a record store. Listen to this- so I know there's this big tall blond crew-cutted guy and he's lookin' at me in a funny way and smiling and he's saying, "Yes, we have a sale this week on Wagner." Wagner, Max, Wagner- so I know what he's really tryin' to tell me very significantly Wagner.
Why, Max? It's a good name for you. Max, you see conspiracies in everything.
Stop calling me Max.
Ah, Max, you, uh...
Wh- How am I a paran-? Well, I pick up on those kind o' things. You know, I was having lunch with some guys from NBC, so I said... uh, "Did you eat yet or what?" and Tom Christie said, "No, didchoo?" Not, did you, didchoo eat? Jew? No, not did you eat, but Jew eat? Jew. You get it? Jew eat?
Alvy, you're a total paranoid.
No, I'm not. We were walking off the tennis court, and you know, he was there and me and his wife, and he looked at her and then they both looked at me, and under his breath he said, "Jew."
I distinctly heard it. He muttered under his breath, "Jew."
She's a colored woman, from Harlem!
How can we afford it? On your pay? What if she steals more?
All right-so we can afford it.
Who's persecuting? She stole!
They're persecuted enough!
She was going through my pocketbook!
So the colored have enough trouble.
But she's colored.
She was stealing.
You fired the cleaning woman?
Di-diabetes? Is that any excuse? Diabetes?
His wife has diabetes!
Let 'im drop dead! Who needs his business?!
Hey, listen-I mean, he was a terrific actor, and look at him, he's neat- looking and he was emotional... Y- hey, I don't think you like emotion too much.
Heavy! Eaten by some squirrels.
Well, yeah, you always look pretty, but that guy with you...
I look pretty.
Look at you, you-you're such a clown.
Then there was Jerry, the actor.
Oh, I can imagine. P-p-probably the wife of an astronaut.
Oh, God, you should've seen what I looked like then.
Dennis-right, uh, uh... local kid probably, would meetcha in front of the movie house on Saturday night.
If only I didn't feel guilty asking Annie to move out. It'd probably wreck her. But I should be honest.
If only I had the nerve to break up, but it would really hurt him.
I'll have the usual trouble with Annie in bed tonight. Whatta I need this?
I have to face facts. I-I adore Alvy, but our relationship doesn't seem to work anymore.
Lotta beautiful women. It was fun to flirt.
That was fun. I don't think California is bad at all. It's a drag coming home.
I just have time to get the, uh-
We're going to take them to the airport.
You think so? Do you really?
Oh, he's adorable, Annie.
Now, don't let it be so long, now.
Yes, I do.
Oh, you remember her, Annie.
Oh, yes, that's right. Did you see the new play?
Oh, yes, yes.
Oh, that Randolph Hunt. You remember Randy Hunt, Annie. He was in the choir with you.
We really had a good time.
We went over to the swap meet. Annie, Gram and I. Got some nice picture frames.
And here, you just-
It could be freezing, it could be raining.
Oh, and there's another thing about New York. See... you-you wanna see a movie, you have to stand in a long line.
Well, I used to live there. I used to live there for years. You know, but it's gotten-it's so dirty now.
I don't know. I don't know.
You can have it to use. Why-why are you smiling?
Oh yeah, stay here? U-huh.
There's a whole wing in this house.
Just... that's all you need. You can come and stay here.
I don't know, this is strange to me, you know.
We just need about six weeks, in about six weeks we could cut a whole album.
I really enjoyed it. Nice to have metcha. Good night.
It was a wonderful set.
Maybe if you're on the Coast, we'll get together and... and we'll meet there.
Oh, well, I-if it's inconvenient, eh, we can't do it now... that's fine, too. W-w-w-we'll do it another time.
And we could just sit and talk... nothing. Uh, not a big deal, it's just relax, just be very mellow.
Uh... w-we're going back to the Pierre. We're staying at the Pierre... and we're gonna meet Jack and Angelica, and have a drink there, and... if you'd like to come, uh, we'd love to have you.
No, I don't-I don't know, but I-I know your work. I'm a big fan of yours.
Well, hey, that's, that's nice. Uh. Oh, listen, this is, uh, Alvy Singer. Do you know Alvy? Uh... and... uh... Tony Lacey.
...of possibly working together.
Oh. What about?
Uh, well, I'd like to talk to you about that sometime, if you get a chance.
No, no, no, not at all.
Are you... are you recording? Or do- Are you with any label now?
Oh, neat... oh, that's very nice, gosh, thanks a lot.
I though it was... very musical, and I liked it a lot.
Oh, yeah, really, oh!
Uh, we just wanted to stop by and say that we really enjoyed your sets.
Hi, I'm-I'm Tony Lacey.
Oh, I was quite a lively dancer.
There were many men interested in you?
I was very charming.
Uh, how did this personality come about?
I was a great beauty.
Tessie, they say you were the sister with personality.
You should talk to Mr. Joe.
Did you see permits? Did he have a license?
It's the way they do things.
Was it a contractor?
Did you know the contractor?
So you were here when they were doing the work on the boundary fence?
A long time.
How long have you worked for the Therrians?
Like you didn't know. Who invited the bimbo?
You're fucking desperate.
Oh I think he's cute. How's the marriage part working out?
You don't want that. It's married and it's the neighbor.
Anouk isn't like a dog, really. More like a small person. So is there anyone here for me? No one looks new. Who's that?
Would it make a difference?
You're not upset that I brought the dog?
I hate the sight of blood. You guys don't take prisoners.
Why didn't you come in?
Ten, fifteen minutes ago.
A triumph. When did you get here?
So who won?
Five years ago, I was at the party, remember?
You've got a lot of fucking gall. Thirty nine.
Scratch the two, write in a four.
Scratch the two, write in a four.
Leo. Leo's twenty-eight, Cal.
I have a small window of time.
Well, I can't make any promises, and of course I haven't read the script but I loved the novel...when are you shooting?
Leo? It was out to Jude Law. Jude passed.
Any thoughts on casting yet?
Hey, listen, I love her. She's Sophia's best friend. I never said any of this, alright. I'll deny it on the stand... You guys are gonna have kids. That is so great. Maybe that's what this is all about. Maybe she doesn't want to do this anymore. You know adults don't do this for a living. You guys are gonna have your kids, you'll be directing -- one asshole in the family is enough. Sophia knew that intuitively. Look at Clair. Clair's a mess. Make sure she gets the epidural. Forget that natural childbirth shit. Everything's going to be what it's supposed to be. "Life is but a walking shadow. A poor player who struts and frets his hour upon the stage and then is heard no more..." And speaking of me, the role of Leo in your film?
Mac's a pretty great director, Joe. He's a woman's director. And nothing's happening. Course he won't fire her, because of the friendship... But it was discussed. He had to battle his studio to get her in the first place.
I still think she sails above the rest. I mean not like her early films. But those were all such great directors.
And, you know it isn't rocket science, this script. She can barely get the lines out. There was a scene last week - she sobbed, through every take. I know crying's easy for her but it's a fucking comedy, Joe. Something's gone. You know, that thing that was Sally - that always surprised you. It's gone. I think she's scared. And that's death.
I don't know what's going on. I don't care to guess. Mac's really unhappy. She isn't there, that's all. She's no idea what she's playing, not a clue.
Oh, she's really enjoying it. I think. Is Mac okay?
Poor Mac. It's been a bit of a struggle. I'm sure Sally's told you.
With great tits. I'm going to ask her if I can touch them.
The camera loves her. A great actress.
Yeah, God she really does have great tits, great tits. i can't wait to work with her.
Absolutely. And she's got great tits.
Yeah, I know... But she's only twenty seven and... The wisdom. She's an old soul. She knew that Shostakovich thing. Did you notice?
And you've only just met.
She's a constant surprise.
She's got great tits.
Isn't Skye amazing?
And how's the diva doing?
It's going. It's going.
Can we... one at a time? Hold it down, and one at a time. You're last, Cal.
The neighbors from hell. The kind that lay in wait. I'd rather move actually. Wouldn't I? Wouldn't I?
I'm not that good.
It has your ring.
Had a little help?
Jack. Did you compose that yourself?
I'll be fine. Really babe. Give me a minute.
I...wait, what are you talking about?
What what's about?
You're coming swimming in the pool, and in a few minutes you won't even remember what it's about. You won't care who's in your damn movie.
I don't know how to make her funny.
Things always look much worse in the morning.
Or I won't. I can't help her. I'm out of my depth.
How nice for everybody. Come swimming. The water's glorious. You'll fix it. You'll come up with one of your brilliant ideas.
You don't have any clothes on.
It's always not this time. If you can do it around me, you can do it around anyone.
Not this time.
You can cut around it, whatever it is. You always do.
I'm in mourning.
Mac? Oh there you are. What are you doing, honey? No more work. Don't you feel breezy.
It's an object lesson in grace. Wow! Look who's here before me! My leading man is on time for once.
So they tell me. Not soon enough, of course. How are you, Sal? You look fantastic. It changes your life, you know. A baby. It puts everything in perspective, doesn't it. Doesn't it, Mac? You can't be the center of your own world, anymore.
It's alright, isn't it?
She already has.
My God, your wardrobe is incredible. It took me forever to decide. Oh, and I found Dr. X, thank you. You saved my life.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
It's not going to come up.
Just don't fucking tell her.
You need to knock off the pills, Clair.
You know Sophia. She's so damned judgemental. And she's so damned... perfect. And so fucking... serene. Just fucking don't tell her. Because you know Mac thinks she's God. And I can feel him comparing.
Why would she care?
I'd love a Xanex. Sally, please don't tell Sophia that I'm not breast feeding.
You want a Tylenol, or something?
And the doctor said they might make me a little jumpy. I've got a ghastly headache, actually.
I'd say it was down.
I'm fine. I'm fine. Well, I'm a little stressed. And I've been taking pills to get my weight down since the baby.
Whatever you like. I'm afraid it'll all be too big for you. Are you alright, Clair?
I'll change back before we leave.
Borrow whatever you like.
It sounds hysterical, but Otis just rubbed up against me and I'd kind of like to change into something of yours. You know it could be disaster. He's so allergic. It's terrifying.
They can tell from the eyelashes, you know? He's got eyelashes yay long. They must be a foot long. The older you are when you have a baby, the more likely this stuff is to crop up.
Didn't I say?
To dander. Otis.
Why didn't you bring him?
Why didn't you bring him?
This is Monica and Ryan. Mac and Clair.
What a fucking day! We only just got a sitter. I don't know her from fucking Adam. She could be a serial killer. I'm going to have to call every ten minutes. You have to let me give out the number.
Oh my God, the sitter.
Let's get the kids.
I can't think how you gave it all up, Soph.
Are you the funniest person I know, or what?
Pictures. They're always in my tote. I left my tote in the damn trailer. But! He's Mac all over again. Imagine Mac shrunk to two-and-a-half feet. The fact is they probably didn't even need me for this birth.
Oh. Do you have any pictures?
Dander. He's allergic. Otis.
You should have brought him.
So this sitter can always reach me. I'm still not used to leaving him.
What is that thing?
With a sitter. We have a sensational sitter. Jonah's really comfortable with her. You know, a second mom sort of. Like part of the family. Amazing with kids.
So where is young Jonah?
Not for a second. Cal can have all that.
Don't you miss it?
I'm glad that's all over for me.
You think so!? I've been working out a lot since the baby. And I've been working. And that takes it's toll, you know.
You look so well, Clair. A wraith.
Count on it.
Take good care of it.
It's not a contest.
And you're not the wife.
Jesus, Sally. I'm not the enemy.
Well you could tell him otherwise. It was good of you to be all this help. But he doesn't want to go tonight.
I told his father he'd be on that flight.
He's not going tonight.
Is he not going? I booked a flight.
He's gonna miss his flight.
I love her too, Joe.
Would you leave us alone right now?
Happy anniversary. You're a good match, you two. Can you help me with this stuff?
Thanks for coming.
I've booked you a flight and packed you a bag. You just need to get into a car and go.
Leave us alone right now.
You need to call your dad.
She left a note.
She's in ICU.
But she's alright.
The suspense is killing me.
Let's go upstairs, okay?
What is it?
I love you, Joe Therrian.
Escape hatch. And Dad was having a go about the garden. Something was misplanted...
You really need to be fucked.
Yeah, but I hear she gives a mean blow job.
I should have damn well bought it. Well, we can't afford it. The movie's going to eat up a year of my life and I'm getting paid next to nothing. Do you know how much Skye Davidson's getting? Four million.
In Cheyene Walk? Lucy's going to have a meltdown. Oh, I'm so sorry.
Shit, I forgot to call her back. She's off on a trip somewhere. Oh God, my grandad's flat in London's been sold.
I saw Lucy when I was in London, she seems okay. It's hard to tell with her.
Oh, very jealous.
When does he graduate high school?
Just did. Jealous?
Ow! Gina, you obviously need to get fucked.
It must be nice having so many strangers kiss your ass all of a sudden.
I'm not so sure. Look again in three months.
Directing suits you.
Can I open it?
What a nose. You missed your calling.
That for us?
No, not anymore. Happy anniversary, scout.
I never put myself in harm's way.
I'm the hired help.
We've heard lots about you.
Oh. You're them.
We live next door.
And you know our friends, how?
Let me. I'm Jeffrey.
They didn't sign their goddamn tax returns!
Not as a rule.
Hm. Do you like fucking out of doors?
Hm. You think we should ask them for their landscaper?
Just every once in a blue moon, you know.
Hm. We should do it again.
Damn near. And a damn near perfect drug.
A perfect night.
I call that a perfect day.
Oh Jesus oh Jesus oh Jesus.
Let me heal you, baby.
Oh yeah... I'm gonna save you.
Do you want me to save you? Do you want me to save you?
Are you my big hard hero?
You're crazy baby. I love you.
Are you my big brave boy? Are you my brave hero?
Forget it, Judy.
There's a test, you know.
Well it's fucking time.
Ya Vhol. What are you, a fucking Nazi?
Time. Hey! Time. Judy! Time you guys. Hey!!
Nice to meet you.
Cal, my wife Judy.
You have to sign your taxes anyway.
I know we're early, we're so early. Sorry.
So, you've got lifeguard papers, or what?
I'm fine, babe. I'm gonna take a little walk. I need a minute. Let's forget it. My life didn't pass in front of my eyes. So, it probably wasn't that close.
Yeah, thanks pal.
Hey. Thanks, buddy.
Give him a minute, Clair.
I'm fine, babe.
Man, I must really be stoned. Thanks, buddy.
He's okay, Clair. You wanna give him a little room?
Are you always this much fun?
I don't think so.
It was fifteen seconds.
Hey! Would you?
What was it? What the fuck was it?
Take your time, Jer.
Beats a lawsuit.
How much bowing and scraping do you want us to do?
Just do what I say, alright?
You're out of your mind.
Before I forget. Put it on the bookshelf.
Did he promise?
Did you tell Joe to behave?
Whatever you say.
That was the plan. And you're thrilled to have them.
The Roses? And of course they said yes.
Did you invite them?
We'll be fine.
There's still time to undo this.
He gets huge advances on his novels. He's going back to that. You know how he hates it here.
They're paying him scale.
He's directing now.
Whatever you say. Listen, I love you.
We couldn't be on more solid ground.
I worry because you don't. It's my job. I'm feeling guilty. I would've liked it if you waited until the two of you were on more solid ground.
Well, you're a tower of support.
You only made half your quote this year.
We've only been over this how many times?
What you earn has to double in order to cover expenses in London, it's an outrageously expensive city.
I know. I know that. Don't spoil it.
The realtor'll be here tomorrow in the morning. The house had to go on the market to insure the loan on the London flat.
I adore him.
I suppose. Sally, that's quite a gift. I'm not sure it's in your best interest.
I love you, you're a genius.
Joe officially owns No. 4, Cheyenne Walk, Chelsea, London, England. No small doing.
Fantastic. Out here.
Will you make love with me?
Oh, Sally Mae...
They're the keys to your grandad's flat. Happy anniversary, baby.
I know. It's for the baby's crib.
He's my favorite.
It's a Calder.
That's under lock and key.
Life gets messy. Ugly messy. But I don't understand you. And I don't think I ever understood Lucy. I don't understand throwing it away. How do you throw all that away? Any of it. I want it all. You guys want guarantees? I want the possibilities. And all kinds of crap comes with that. A lot of bad shit. And I think that's okay with me because, because of the rest of the stuff. All the good shit. All the surprises. It's a fucking miracle when you come down to it. We'd have had amazing children, you and me. We'd have had a ride. You'd have surprised yourself. I'll never love anybody else, you know.
Pretty much a disaster, tonight, wasn't it?
You don't have to.
I don't want to go tonight.
I'll be with you.
I can't got tonight. I don't want to be on a plane on my own tonight.
Everybody hates the messenger.
Alright, good. Thanks for your trouble. So will you leave Sally and me alone right now?
I have no idea who you are.
I'll never forgive you.
I wasn't part of that picture at all, was I? I wasn't part of that decision. Did I occur to you at all? It's a fucking farce. It's a fucking farce. How long did you think you could keep it going. You're amazing. Do you have any idea what you've done to us?
Don't make allowances. I'll never be ready. Some people just shouldn't have children. I'd be a terrible fucking mother, Joe. I did want it for us. But I couldn't do it. I don't really think I can do it.
You're not ready.
I'm a monster. Exactly.
What?! You aborted our child?!
You think this was to hurt you?! My God, Joe. It isn't about you.
I wanted you back.
You changed your mind.
I told you when we met I never wanted children. I don't want kids in my life. We talked about it. You weren't listening.
Don't do this!
I found out I was pregnant and it scared the shit out of me.
Don't do this.
I had an abortion two weeks ago.
Don't push me away.
This is insanity. Sally...
Sally, for Christ's sake.
Mac? Mac says it? Cal?
Your director and your co-star of your current movie. Don't dish if you can't take it, Sally.
Who? Who? Who thinks that?
Okay. If we could've, by some miracle, stripped ten years off your face, still couldn't have got the thing made. Because I don't mean anything as a director, and your name doesn't mean fuck all anymore. And the people that can hire you are afraid to, because they think you're phoning it in. That you don't have... Oh Christ, Sally.
Not really. I mean your books have always been pop, but this is the shallowest of the bunch. That's what all our friends think, anyway.
Well there you go. I let you off the hook. You're one goddamn lucky actress.
It's a shit novel anyway.
Sally, I have never considered you for this part because you are too old to play it. And you are out of touch with reality if you think differently.
I don't look my age, Joe.
Hello? Last birthday was?
What are you saying?
Who the fuck do you think you are? The part of Genna is not just about you. It's about every woman I've ever loved in my entire life. Including my mother. The character is also clearly in her early twenties, Sally.
It's a novel.
And how fucking dare you cast Skye Davidson in that part? Have you any idea how humiliating that is for me? I'm an actress! It's about our marriage for fuck's sake. Everybody knows that...
Right. And when was the last time you spoke to her?
Every novel I've had published in every language I've dedicated to Lucy.
It is true. You know how you love, Joe? You dedicate a book to someone.
That is not true.
You want to talk about bullshit? Lucy called you three times this week. She's a fucking mess, Joe. Your sister is a fucking mess. She needs you. I talk to her more than you do.
Sally, first of all, you're talking bullshit. And second...
You've been through it. That's how you love people. When it's easy for you, when it's convenient for you.
Just stop right there, Sally. We've been through this.
And how hard it hit?
DO I want anyone else? No. Do I want to be with you for the rest of my natural life? I'm trying.
It's not like this all the time.
That hasn't the first fucking thing to do with love. It's whether we can live together... like this! All the time.
You walked out on a five year marriage.
I'm not sure we understand that word in the same way.
Otis! Come! Good boy! Come!
Sally, so I took a few pills. I went out dancing. I tried to forget how upset I was about splitting up with you. I haven't lied to you. I told you about the people I've slept with. I just didn't mention the few occasions I took drugs because you're so fucking judgmental I knew I'd never hear the end of it, and you have so little faith and so little trust in me. Sally, we're back, I love you. Trust that. Please let's not do this.
What else don't I know about, Joe? Let's get really clear here.
Rave parties?! That's so typical - you would think it was called rage. Perfect!
Yeah, let's talk about that. You seem to be rather an expert. I don't remember in the last five months of counselling your ever mentioning ecstacy or going to rage parties.
Jesus, Sally. You are a medical miracle. The only person who's ever taken ecstacy and become angrier.
Oh fuck you, and fuck Monica while you're at it. But I guess that's what I interrupted.
Well someone clearly let him out before Monica opened the gate.
It was done. When Sophia put the kids to bed, America brought Otis in the room and closed the door. It was done.
This is a nightmare. We should have kept him upstairs.
Otis, good boy, come here. Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god.
Or shitty!! Otis!!
Sally, calm down. We're not going to find him any quicker by you being hysterical.
There are fucking coyotes out there.
He'll find his way back.
Can't have gone far? He's like a greyhound. He could be miles away.
Well he can't have gone far.
She left the fucking gate open.
Listen to yourself... Don't worry, it's alright. We'll find him. What's wrong with you?
Don't be so sure.
Oh for fuck's sake. Nobody uses that gate.
Someone left the goddamn gate open. Otis got out. Skye and I, well the... I came out of the house and the fucking gate was wide open.
I'm worried about my spine. I'm very worried about my brain and my spine.
I think we should all take it tonight. Everyone's staying, stays. No driving. That's the rule. I love you Sally-Mae. You're going to have a fabulous time.
It's ecstasy, Sal.
Whatever! You know how he gets. Well, he went absolutely bonkers. Lucy and I were frantically trying to scramble into the dumb waiter and I didn't fit any more. It was almost fatal. And that, my dear friends, is the day...
Not properly watered.
I'm not fucking angry, for God's sake.
Dinner. Don't be angry.
Okay, knock it off.
You've got Cal. You've got Gina. You've got Skye? We're the leftovers.
It's an unfair advantage.
Panes is not on your team anymore.
It's alright. Be our guests.
It's taken care of.
Well, not yet. The gate was open?
Okay. Last one to find Otis is a smelly old bum.
Who'd like to go and find Otis?
In the kitchen.
And Joe's huge in Europe. He's like a rock star in London. His novels sell millions.
Otis! No barking!
You can never be too early or too thin.
Of course we do. We have to sign our taxes.
I'll say as little as possible.
Promise you'll be nice to the neighbors.
I can't imagine anyone else playing Genna.
I'm going to throw up.
I'm looking forward to meeting you, too. And Skye, I'm thrilled that you're willing to take this leap with me. Eternally grateful, really.
Skye! I'm so glad you're able to make it...it's our sixth, actually. You read the book again? Well, no, the ending to chapter six...it's just that it's not filmic. We tried it in an earlier draft, but, it just wasn't filmic... Well, sure, we can absolutely look at that again. If you're coming from Laurel, you want to take Sunset west, we're just past Will Rogers State Park. Three blocks west of that, you want to hang right. It's about three quarters of a mile up a big white thing on the left.
And she's a stinking fucking actress, for fuck's sake.
No, no of course not. How old is she? Twenty-fucking-two?
You want me to uninvite her?
No, no of course not. It's Skye fucking Davidson, for fuck's sake.
She goes on location tomorrow. Sally, I'm sorry. Look, I can't keep her on hold.
You invited her to our anniversary party? I didn't even invite my mother.
Okay. I'm sorry, look, I meant to tell you. It was the only chance I had to meet her.
They can't find a sitter... Hello? Excuse me? Yes, uh, hold on. Just a moment. It's Skye Davidson. She needs directions to the house. You invited Skye fucking Davidson to our anniversary party?
Well, it might be Clair. They're threatening not to come...
Don't get it.
I mean, you're really back.
I missed all of you. We're okay, aren't we?
No. I missed that.
No. Did you?
You didn't kiss anyone else's knees, did you?
Through the sweats or not?
Kiss the back of my knees.
In the morning, after everyone's gone and there's just us.
What did you get me?
I think you're the most beautiful woman in the world.
Accept a compliment.
I love you. Most beautiful woman in the world.
Happy anniversary, baby.
Oh, well, we'll just have to try again. Sound like a plan?
I'll do it.
Come on, Panes...
What's a sign for that?
She'll never call again. She called last week to tell me she'll never call again. Where's Sally?
Has she called?
Oh, you know, I am.
Panes! How are you?
It's Jerry's worst idea.
He's the best dog in the world. They're both coming tonight. Not my idea.
The infamous dog?
And so I always manage to, do you see? Like the book/script thing, do you see?
But I'm always afraid I'll say something stupid.
And I you.
You manage to throw me off balance. I adore you.
Do I put you off?
Yes I know. I started to say... I started to say Joe that --
Don't be silly.
I don't know why Joe, we've known each other how long...
Don't I find what?
Is your script much like the novel? Jerry says it's very good. But you know, you read the novel, and then you see the movie - and most of the time you say, "what's this?" You know? I sometimes think we're better off not reading the novel at all. Because, we come with expectations... and of course, we know where we're going. Don't you find?
Yes I did.
It's very good. I understand you won the Booker Prize.
I'm not much of a reader, but I do love autobiographies, even biographies sometimes. Mostly non-fiction. Did you read the new Styron?
Still. Well. Let's drop it.
It's a novel.
But I am right, yes? She's based on Sally.
Yes, she is.
Oh my God, I'm a huge Skye Davidson fan. She's very beautiful.
The novel. No, Skye Davidson is playing the lead.
Congratulations on the deal. How exciting. Is Sally doing Sally? I mean it's Sally. The character that's based on Sally. The character that's based on Sally in the book.
Oh. Well. Good.
Nothing that can't be exchanged.
I love gifts. What did you guys get us?
Thanks, I'll take that. Champagne?
We have a gift?
Oh don't. Everyone says that.
No. No. Let me tell you something. Directing's the best preparation possible for fatherhood. The sleep depravation alone.
Oh. You're serious.
I meant Sally.
I meant Sally.
Well, you know...good days, bad days.
God, I really need to jump about a bit. How's your film going?
Hey, I'm happy for you, buddy. Anything I can do.
Thanks, Mac. And thanks for being so supportive about all this. I really love you, you know.
Kind of. Hey, look - John Seale, Oliver Stapelton, Darius Khonji - they're friends. And great DP's I could give them a call for you.
Not particularly. Weird, isn't it? God I'm rally up. Do you feel anything yet, Mac?
And you got Skye Davidson. Pretty big leagues for a first timer. Do you even like movies?
What? Oh yeah, the camera man? They gave me a list.
You got your DP?
Ah there's our snookums now.
You lose this?
It was a mistake. This isn't a plot to do in Otis.
I'm so sorry.
Stop being such a bitch, Sal.
I think it's great that I made an impression at all, you know.
Yeah, it was. For a writer nothing's sacred. No, nothing at all.
I know you changed it to a bookstore. And the color of my hair. But the moment was exactly the same. The same, you know, dynamic. And almost verbatim, wasn't it?
I'm so glad. You know, I recognize that passage in your book. The bit about us running into each other in the movie theatre.
I like you.
That's very nice.
Oh yes. Nineteen...just. I'm cold.
You must have been a baby.
Nine...nine, yes? Nine years, just about.
How long have you been married?
He has to find non-smoker's meetings that used to be almost impossible, you know? It's gotten much better.
And he doesn't smoke?
A lot of cakes.
That's a lot of those.
Eight years, though. That's quite an accomplishment.
It's really not the same thing. He was really nicer when he drank.
I think he's really angry with me too.
Ryan's really angry with me.
Lemon it is.
Lemon or raspberry?
You're never too old for a lolly. I'm having one.
What am I, five?
Here, drink this. Drink lots of water. Hold on to this. Take deep breaths. Nice and slow. Would you like a lolly?
I'm a little in the puke zone.
Oh? It's easy. You just put one foot in front of the other... That's a good girl.
I've never done this before.
Let's go for a walk.
I don't think so. I feel. I feel a bit funny.
Are you okay?
I will treasure this.
I need to leave you now.
We're way past inappropriate.
Would you sign it for me. I'm sure this is inappropriate.
I'll be your best friend.
Alright. Please don't tell Ryan I'm drinking.
Oh shit. I'm sorry. I'm a total fucking maniac. Delete all that, okay? I spoke for myself, this needn't rub off on my wife. Oh shit. I get pissy sometimes. Much worse than Otis. Otis doesn't bite. It's just, I really love my dog and he doesn't really bark a lot. We live in a canyon. We hear dogs barking at night, too. And it's not Otis.
Well, that's what Ryan thought. I was more generous, actually.
Oh shit. I'm sorry.
And your phone calls are nasty and abusive. And I've come this close to suing you for harassment. And you're only here because we're supposed to be sucking up to you.
And Ryan works at home.
And you know, he really does not.
The wrong word, maybe. Delete that. And, you know, the dog barks incessantly.
But you're very private people. You know, there's a kind of elitism...
I think a lot of this could have been avoided if Sally made more of an effort.
Very well put.
I don't know why, but these misunderstandings have a way of escalating.
Well, yes. Yes, in fact. A little on the outside, yes. And there's been all this friction.
No you're not.
A little out of my element.
I'm a little nervous, so...
Oh, yes. You know Ryan's been sober eight years. And it's difficult if I... you know. It's better if I don't.
Yeah, we're in a constant state of flux. I see you've moved up from the soft stuff.
Mmm. It says something about the two of you maybe.
In fits and starts -- and then, later, of course, she had to accommodate me. So things shifted a little bit then, became more eclectic. And it keeps changing.
Sally did all this herself?
You're an interior decorator, right?
Your Eames table is incredible. And the B&B. I just put that in a client's home, actually, but in red.
Right away. Are you sure you wouldn't like something soft, Ryan?
No, he's absolutely right. You're absolutely right, Ryan. Dog talk must be banned. Canine conversations are completely discouraged... it's really good of you to join us. Can I get you a drink?
This is an amazing present. What a sweetheart you are.
I think there are sixteen there.
You're going to be a remarkable director, a brilliant director.
I'm so happy you like it. I'm so relieved you said yes, and I'm really, um, what, thrilled, yes actually, to finally meet you.
When I read your work I felt that you knew me. Women must tell you that. And this one in particular speaks to me, do you know? I am Genna. How many women must tell you that. And the script is wonderful. Wonderful and lean and visual...
Yeah, well, it's just us and a few hundred of our closest friends.
Oh, I love that. I'm just great. I'm so happy to be here. And I apologize for invading you. And I'm so happy you asked me to. I'm so touched. I know how private you and Sally are.
How do you do, Skye?
How's he doing?
No, it's not... Fuck fuck fuck fuck.
I was faking it. I've been feeling caged for sometime. Funny, huh?
I didn't say a word.
Clair is a hovering mother.
Of course it's alright.
Let's just go home, okay?
Don't go in, Ryan.
Jesus Christ, it's a fucking dog!
All the ugly phone calls? We're not the only people with a tape recorder, Ryan. They've gone to the canyon, we should go towards the PCH.
Because we're nice people, and because what goes around comes around. Because, God help you if something happens to that dog?
We have to find the dog, Ryan.
I left the gate open and Otis got out! He could get hit by a car!
You're not serious.
Ryan, you've got to come! You've got to help me find the dog! I let their dog out. We need to find the dog.
I'm going to go get my swimsuit. I do know, Ryan, this is non addictive so you mustn't worry. Ryan, you're a great man.
Ready to go?
You need a good review and you'll be fine. The whole color of the world will change, mark my words.
I don't need a drug.
There's only you, Ryan. You know what, Ryan? You're beautiful. I love you so much... You need...
Are you making an ass of yourself?
I think you need to speak for yourself, Ryan. But I think you're really nice people...
They're nothing like us.
They're really nice people, Ryan. They're like us...
I'm not going to leave you alone.
I think you should then. You should look in on Sheila.
Do you want to go home, Ryan?
You know what Sally Therrian was saying about your spine and your brain? She didn't pull that out of thin air. It causes brain damage. You'd better drink a lot of water.
I love it here. Don't you love it here, Ryan? I love it here. And I love tonight. And I love these people. And this feels utterly fantastic, Ryan. Utterly fantastic.
He always has two or three going...
Well, yes, actually.
I'm sure you understand.
How long ago was it?
You fucking cow, can't you read?!
I'm so sorry.
There's a goddamn sign on the gate.
I did it.
Well, whoever did this is amazing.
I so wish I'd known.
Thank you. I understand you're an interior decorator.
Yes, great! It's a beautiful house.
Hors d'oeuvres or something?
Are you working on a new book?
We could hardly say no.
Yes. And you've met Joe.
Hi. Monica and Ryan?
Who told you that? No. I'm twenty... Five.
Oh good, I'm worse... Are you really twenty-two?
No, I'm just testing to see how deeply perverted and impulsive you are.
Are you asking me to marry you?
How about someone who really really liked Shostakovich?
If he were still alive, maybe.
Would you, like, marry him?
Do you really, you really, like Shostakovich?
Exactly! So I dug it, and I did a lot of research.
Set to the poem of Yetveshenko!
I just did a movie about Bob Yar, I played Gittle, the Jewish milkmaid who gets shot in the head, and they used Shostakovich's 13th Symphony.
Otis you crazy dog! Otis are you in this God forsaken Canyon? My people are very hungry.
Do Peter Sellers again.
I'll tell you who doesn't know, cute girls don't know.
Who doesn't know about the infamous composer's conference of 1948 where Zhdanov persecuted the leaders of Soviet Music - Shostakovich, Prokofieve, and Myaskovsky.
Andre Zhdanov? How the hell do you know about Andre Zhdanov?
Not to mention Andrew Zhdanov... Otis, come!!
Otis!! Shostakovich identified with the Jew. He felt persecuted, hunted, crushed under the thumb of Stalinist imperialism.
Oh yes, indeed. That was my clue, you see.
That was my clue.
I was impressed.
No, no thanks.
Do you need anything else?
Is there space here?
Oh my god. I've been so rude. I'm Skye Davidson. Has anyone ever told you, you look like Peter Sellers?
Not at all.
And I'm overwhelmed. And I want to do it justice. And I hope we can spend time together. And I'm gushing. It's my worst quality.
I'm in the same room with Sally Nash. Oh my God. You're my icon. I've been watching your films since I was a little girl. Like, four years ago I followed you all around the Beverly Center - at least half a day, working up the courage to introduce myself.
Come on in.
Panes is not on my team anymore. I'll have Panes if I like.
What did I do?
From Jewish Folk Poetry, a song cycle...
We're going to have to go back out there.
You don't need to thank me.
Thank you, Panes.
Yes, you're a monster.
That's not an answer, is it?
You're my best friend.
Oh you know. No doubts. No second thoughts. Am I a monster?
So tell me, how's it going?
Um. Happy for you.
Nothing's wrong. It's great, okay? Having the time of my life. Mac's a fantastic director. And what can anyone say about Cal that hasn't been said. And it's great working with friends, blah blah blah.
Well, something's wrong.
No. Not something new.
Alright. Well, that's something new.
I never like to talk about my work.
I don't want to talk about it.
That's it? Yes. Fine?
How's the movie going? Your movie. You are making a movie, aren't you?
No, really, five thousand with your discount.
You're a shit.
I'm worried about your Galiano.
No. Really. For real. Really.
Why don't you go fuck yourself?
So how are you really doing, Panes?
About five thousand dollars. With my discount.
What does that mean?
Shit. It's my Galiano.
I'd cut off her red wine if I were you.
I'm Levi Panes. Will you excuse us, Skye? It's time for Sally's meds.
You know it's true.
"Otherwise, we'd insist on your being here."
We're just feeling our way back.
I didn't hear me say tonight.
It's our anniversary, Panes.
"We can't stand seeing you like this, Panes. I hate you being alone. Why don't you stay with us for a while?" "I'd love to, thanks."
I wasn't finished.
Like the last time.
No. No, not like the last time. She was the rest of my life.
Like the last time.
"How are you really doing, Panes?" "Lousy, thank you, I'm falling apart."
I don't want it to be just one of our parties.
It's not ruined, for fuck's sake. It's one of your parties.
Exactly what I mean. It's all ruined.
Oh, okay, forgive me. Your neighbors are here, for fuck's sake.
They're not just our business managers, Panes.
Like your business managers?
I just wanted tonight to be with the people we love.
You see, that's worse.
Fuck you, Panes.
She could be playing the role in Joe's movie that should be yours.
It could be worse.
She's all over him, are you blind?
You don't know she's a bitch.
Oh, Jesus, Panes. I can't, I can't believe that bitch is in my house.
Really? I need a drink. Come hide with me.
She's even better looking in the flesh.
Panes is here!
Will champagne help?
Suicidal. It's much less codependent.
Are you lovesick?
It's a machine gun. I thought I'd kill myself.
Good, you brought your violin. I want you to play.
Absolutely. You always wonder where your books end up. Why don't we use it?
Oh. Well, yes. It's extraordinary. You think you could sign it for us?
I didn't know you had this.
Monica and Ryan.
Well today it was Otis. And you should keep him away from our yard. Because Sheila will defend herself.
Well the neighborhood is full of dogs, and it's not always Otis.
It's just very distracting when you're trying to work.
You're keeping a record, are you?
At 4:30 today he barked for a solid fifteen minutes. I have it on tape.
Thank you. This was so unnecessary. I hope you've noticed that Otis isn't barking as much. We keep him in at night.
Well, so glad you decided to come.
Relax. You've done enough.
I don't mind...
You don't need to do that.
What are they?
Happy anniversary. Thank you for making me a part of it.
Whatever, do you remember? I've seen all your movies. When I was in rehab, the second time, they wouldn't even let us see your drug addict movie. They said you were too real. I worship you. And I couldn't be more flattered, because I know the part I'm playing in Joe's movie is based on you as a young woman.
I don't think I ever spent half a day in the Beverly Center.
I'll be right out.
Oh my God, sorry. I'm interrupting.
No you are not. You're Sally Nash. Listen to me, you're Sally Nash. You're my best friend and I love you more than anyone, and you're not going to move to London to have the offspring of a sexually ambivalent man-child. "Oh now I'm a novelist, oh now I'm a director..." English prick bastard Joe Therrian who's probably going to leave you for Skye Davidson anyway.
But I am a possessive, fragile neurotic.
His image of you is a possessive, fragile neurotic.
Why are you doing this?
Ha! Not half so not kind as your husband was in his portrayal of you in his novel.
Not nice. Not kind.
Well, you weren't fine last summer when you went Sylvia Plath on me in Connecticut.
We're fine. We're great. We're having a baby and we're moving to London.
You don't have kids to keep a marriage together, Sally. It's only five months since Joe came back.
His sister does. Big time. And the New York Times says addiction is genetic -- I'll e-mail you the article.
Neither does Joe.
I don't have a drug problem.
You weren't exactly horrified.
Cal knows who he is. Did you notice how happy Joe was when the drugs came out tonight?
And Cal's this massive adult?
Don't try and change the subject. Oh God, it feels great! He's just a little narcissistic, irresponsible and unreliable.
Hey, let's sit down. I bet the rug feels really nice against your skin.
He wants playmates. Oh he's a sweetheart, Sal, you know I love him. But he's not going to be a good father. He's just not parenting material.
Oh Soph, Joe loves kids. Joe wants kids. Joe thinks he needs kids.
Honey, I'm not worried about you. You are going to be a fantastic mom. Not an issue. I pressed you, remember? Joe, on the other hand, is a different story.
No, no, not at all... I mean I've still got plenty of time. Don't I? I mean I still have a good six years, whatever. We could have three kids yet, if we wanted. And I know I've always said I never wanted kids, and I didn't... but this year, I really, truly, feel ready...
Well, are you sure about this baby thing? It's not the ticking clock shit, is it?
What do you mean, thank God?
Oh honey, let's.
Let's go in the kitchen and spy on everyone.
Well good. Thank God.
Sophia! I'm not even pregnant!
You are not having your baby in London. You're going to have your baby at Cedars in Beverly Hills, America, delivered by Dr. Milton Cohen. Period. And you're getting that epidural right away, don't let anyone talk you into any of that Lamase bullshit. There's no excuse for pain like that.
And the food sucks, I know.
You'll hate it in London. It's wet and miserable. A medical hellhole Sally. It's socialized. Beds in the corridors. Terrible plumbing.
I trust you.
She took our wedding photos, for chrissakes. You don't trust anyone.
Well, I don't trust her. I never have.
So how much do you hate her?
But she really gets to the heart of Joe, doesn't she? She's a genius.
The both of you.
We're always in here. She really gets him, doesn't she?
A notch above the storage room.
It's much more personal in here.
I thought it was okay where it was.
So where should I put it?
She's such a great photographer.
Isn't this a fabulous picture?
Would you like to meet my husband?
I hope they're watercolors!
In the guest room. I've laid out a paint table for them.
Hmm. Where are my kids?
He's a novelist.
And she was saying how happy you were to finally have them over. Because you're both, so, what - introspective? And you should have done it ages ago. I'm Sophia Gold. Come meet my husband, Cal.
And here they are!
Oh my God! America told me your neighbors are coming?
Evie has a little something for you.
Enough about me.
Who cares, Z. All I know is, we gotta dig. We're not the ones in charge.
This colony needs another tunnel like a hole in the ground. Why are we even digging this thing?
Thank goodness. Breaktime.
No, Z. The squeaky wheel gets <u>thrown</u> <u>away</u>, alright? You're a good ant, Z, even though you are a pain in my rear- segment. I don't wanna see anything happen to you. So quit mouthing off, before you get in trouble.
The squeaky wheel gets the oil.
Z, old pal... SHUT UP!!! It's bad enough there's a food shortage without you complaining about it every day.
Sorry Azteca. Here you go, fellas! Fresh dirt! Alley oop! Shouldn't we be wearing gloves? I mean this dirt is very...dirty. Doesn't anyone think of hygiene? Boy am I hungry. I'm so hungry I'm seeing double. It looks like there's <u>two</u> million ants in here. When's lunch? Tomorrow, or the day after?
Right...because every ant's important!
Someone who follows his heart!
No -- an <u>individual</u>!
Well, because he's more than a worker...he's a...what did he call it, Azteca...
That's right! He slaughtered hundreds of termites single-handedly!
You know, you're not just workers -- you can be whatever you want to be! Look at Z! He started as a worker -- then he became a soldier!
Z? <u>Our</u> Z? The little guy made it!
Wait a minute, that's no soldier -- that's Z!
I'll make myself available...Listen, better watch out with the backtalk. I don't know want you to end up like the guy who used to work next to me. I'm afraid he got... <u>downsized</u>.
No -- I mean yes -- I mean -- if you don't have other plans.
Are you asking me out to dinner?
Sorry I got you in trouble. But listen, you can share my rations.
I don't know what came over me, talking back like that. I must be going crazy...
Mmm, yes, I see what you mean...
Nobody told me digging was so much fun! You pick up the dirt, you move it, you pick it up again, you move it again -- lots of repetitions, you exercise the forceps, and the pincers --
Tell me about it.
I'm new...I was born yesterday.
Hey, slow it down, big boy. You're making the rest of us look bad...How come I haven't seen you around here before?
Because...because he's <u>twice</u> the ant that you are. I could <u>never</u> go through with marrying you. I'm -- I'm an <u>individual</u>, and when I get married, it'll be to someone <u>I</u> choose.
You miss him? <u>Why</u>?
Well you'll never be able to hurt him where he is now. I miss him already.
It's a shame he died prematurely...I was hoping to kill him myself.
He's...he's dead. You don't have to look for him anymore. He was eaten by a praying mantis.
Oh...and I was afraid we had nothing in common...
Well... I declared war!
So, um...how was your day? What did you do?
Very well. Carpenter, is there a convenient time to talk vis-a-vis: relationship?
General -- we have to talk sometime!
I mean, I've got the whole package, right? A great life, a beautiful wife, and a few kids.
I know it's crazy, but -- I can't just leave. Don't argue with me. If I've learned anything, it's that the problems of two people don't add up to a hill of ants in this world. Or beans. Something like that. Anyway, I've <u>got to warn the others</u>.
Z! what are you doing?
Bala, that -- that lake we found -- I think the tunnel's right underneath it! -- Formica's going to <u>flood the</u> <u>colony</u>!!! That's what he meant when said there were too many ants!
There's something going on, Z --
Why do they have you tied up here?
Well, I...I know it's a little strange, but...I thought it might come in handy if I...needed a scarf someday. Well, to be honest, I just liked having it.
You held onto this all that time?
Sorry, it's been through a war, not to mention everything else...
Well, "trouble" is my middle name. Actually, my middle name is .985, but I don't tell people. Hey, Bala, I...I actually have something of yours...you left it at the bar that night.
Just looking for fun, adventure, trouble, I guess.
So...you never did tell me...what made you come out to the worker bar that night?
Forget it. You go ahead, I give up. I...I don't know what I was thinking. "Insectopia".
Come on, Z.
<u>This is all your fault</u>!!!
Z...if we don't make it...I just want you to know....
Let's dig in!
You were right...you were right! Z, it's <u>beautiful</u>!
We've found it! <u>Insectopia</u>! Look at all this food'
What difference does it make...we're both going to starve to death, or get squished, or set on fire...
Come on...tell me there wasn't just a little...something between us that first night at the bar. The night we danced.
Face it, Z, we're lost! We must have walked halfway across the world by now! How did I get into this mess...
Well...I <u>am</u> the oldest.
So what makes you so special?
Well...no, but --
And only you can become a Queen?
Five thousand three hundred and ninety -- no. About five thousand four hundred by now.
Look. How many other Princesses are there?
General Formica won't let me die out here. I'm his fiancee.
Princess, has it ever occurred to you that they're <u>not going to rescue you</u>?
Stop fooling around in there.
Out here I'm just what?
Listen, "Princess", you can't order me around. Out here, you're not the boss anymore -- out here, you're just --
Cut me down a soft leaf so I can take a nap.
This lake is huge! And so close to the colony! Think of the vacation potential!
Wait, I hear something!
Want a list?
Why didn't I listen to my mother ...why'd I have to go looking for trouble? Any ant would have given their left legs to be in my position...what's <u>wrong</u> with me?
Come on -- it's gone! What are the chances of that happening again?
We're going to die!
<u>I</u> ruined <u>your</u> life? Look, I was perfectly happy until I met you -- alright, I was miserable, but I was <u>happily miserable</u>.
My skin's dry, my exoskeleton is cracking...I wish I'd never met you, you ruined my life.
Water...water -- oh, you already said that.
That's not a name! That's just a letter!
I've got a <u>name</u>. It's <u>Z</u>.
Worker! Come back here now!
Yeah, well I have it on a reliable source... that it exists. Now you follow the yellow egg... <u>That</u> direction.
<u>Insectopia</u>? You stupid worker, that's just a fairy tale!
Well, that's an appealing offer, but...considering the options... You go back. Me, I'm going to Insectopia.
Now, worker, you shall take me back to the colony, and have your head cut off and stuck on a sharp pole!
I <u>didn't</u> choose him. What kind of <u>idiot</u> would... ...<u>choose</u> who she wanted to marry?
Is that the same standard you used to choose General Formica?
I was <u>slumming it</u>! I danced with you because you were the most pathetic specimen in the place!
Oh come on, <u>you're</u> the one who came after me -- the swarthy, earthy, sensual worker!
Ha! Don't make me laugh. You're crazy about me! That's why you lied and cheated to get near me!
Well I guess that makes us even.
I -- <u>hate</u> -- you.
Look around, sweetheart.
No! There's no such thing as "just two ants." You never see just two ants -- you see a million ants!
But can there be a society composed of just two ants?
Of course! It defines society! To deny the precept is to say that order is an arbitrary distinction applied by the society itself!
Theoretically, yes. But is the monarchical hierarchy applicable without the underlying social structure to support it?
How dare you speak to me like that? I'm the Princess!
Who's the bigger idiot -- the idiot who gets kidnapped, or the idiot who lets herself get kidnapped by the idiot?
I've been kidnapped by the village idiot.
Climb up that tree and get a better view!
Excuse me, I -- Pardon me -- And they call them social insects.
Alright, alright, I'll try to get directions from one of the locals.
I order you to find out where we are!
How should <u>I know</u>?
What <u>was</u> that thing?
-- At the <u>worker bar</u>! You were pretty hot to trot then!
Quiet -- sshhh!!
That's not what you said the <u>other</u> <u>night</u> --
I CAN'T DANCE WITH A WORKER!
Gee, uh, could you say it a little louder, I think there are some ants in the next colony who didn't hear you.
OH MY GOD, IT'S YOU! YOU'RE A WORKER!!! A filthy, stupid, disgusting WORKER!
No...as a matter of fact...
He was a worker. I danced with him at a <u>worker's bar</u> just the other day. I'm not shocking you, am I?
No weirdly...You remind me of someone...
Uh, sorry, General, I...I've always had this animal magnetism, it --
No, General. I'm dancing with the war hero.
Oh...oh well then, one more won't matter.
Ah, yes. Well, charmed, I'm sure. So, Princess, have you ever danced with a hero?
I'm Princess Bala.
And you are...?
Well, if single-handedly vanquishing the enemy and slaughtering a whole nestful of termites makes someone a hero, yes I am.
You're the hero of the recent termite campaign, aren't you?
Let me think. Hmmnn... Never. Bye!
Wait! When can I see you again?
Uh oh. Goodbye! Gotta run!
Aren't you gonna stand up for yourself?
Oh, that's okay, I'll let him off this time. Are you crazy? This guy's built like a pebble! You know they do great prosthetic antennas nowadays --
You watch yours, soldier, or my worker friend will beat you up!
Why can't I just do whatever I want to do? Why can't I just go wild?! Yahoo!
You -- you think I'm right?
Why should everyone dance the same way? It's as exciting as watching fungus grow.
Well, actually, uh -- I'm sort of making it up --
Are you sure this is a real dance?
The palace, hunh? I bet those royals really live it up. Of course they're all a little, you know, from inbreeding --
I work in the palace, I don't get out much.
So uh -- how come I haven't seen you around here before?
What a bunch of losers. Mindless zombies capitulating to an oppressive system --
Then if I go to the worker bar, it isn't improper. Anyway, don't worry. No one will recognize us in our disguises.
Of course not --
And do Princesses do improper things?
Of course --
I'm the Princess, aren't I?
We shouldn't be doing this -- it isn't proper!
The worker bar! Yes! That's where I want to go!
There isn't anyplace else -- Except the worker bar.
The Club's so <u>stuffy</u>. I want to try someplace different.
Darling, you must encourage the troops -- wave!
Who is that idiot?
Yes -- but I did my duty and sorted out all those messy feelings. The wonderful thing about ant life is that everything is arranged. Even marriage. You're lucky -- General Formica is a paragon of anthood.
I felt the same way before I got married. Confused. Scared.
It's just that -- well, I'm honored that you selected me, and everything, I just thought the marriage might go a little more smoothly if -- we had a conversation?
Bala has always been a hopeless romantic, General.
Don't make my mistake, kid... don't...be a grunt...your whole life...
Barbatus, hang on -- Barbatus!!
I wonder...what...was it all...for...
Hang in there, buddy! You can make it! Just -- take deep breaths, I'll try and find your body -- it's gotta be around here somewhere!
No -- I can see it in your eyes. I'm a goner. It's alright, Z. In this ant's army, a soldier's life ain't worth a sack of fungus. I can't feel my legs...
No, no, you're...lookin' good. You've got good color in your cheeks.
Be honest, kid -- am I hurt bad?
Z! Over here!
Don't get all sappy about it!
BARBATUS! You -- you saved my life!
Maybe they went out for the evening. Let's leave them a message and head home.
Don't be scared, kid. Barbatus's got yer back.
Superior numbers, kid!
So we're going back for more armor, right? I mean, these guys are from outer space, how are we supposed to beat them?!
Our platoon has the best assignment of all. We're the first into battle!
Well, what exactly does our platoon do? Serve beverages? Process paperwork?
Attack? But -- I hate attacking! It's so hostile!
No -- we're going to attack the termites!
Yeah. Well -- no. She's kind of playing hard to get. As a matter of fact, she's playing completely unattainable. So, what's on the schedule? A brisk walk? a foraging expedition?
You just stick by old Barbatus. He'll watch out for you. Whatsamatter, kid? Leave a girl behind?
Trial membership? Kid, when you join this ant's army, you're in for the full hitch.
I just joined up. But I'm quitting! I got a trial membership!
You new, kid?
Uh, actually, we <u>are</u> outnumbered sir...
What are you doing?! ATTACK!! Come on, you yellow-bellies! Don't just stand there, Carpenter! Make an example of yourself!
Ant Team Six...
Desperate times call for desperate measures. Get me Ant Team Six.
Scattered reports, sir. Rumors. Nothing reliable.
What do we have on this "Insectopia"?
No one should have to. Have him brought to me.
Well, uh, who notices workers, sir?
Notice the big one, holding hands with the female?
I've never seen anything like it, General, they're they're...well, look!
Dammit, this tunnel is priority A-1! We can't afford <u>any delays</u> on this project!
Fourteen-fifty hours, sir.
Actually, sir, we're ahead of schedule. We have thirty-six seconds available right now.
Princess! You look -- outstanding. Is there anything I can do for you?
Princess Bala, sir. Your fiancee.
Not that one. Or that one.
That's correct, sir!
We know what makes an ant colony strong, don't we? We know that no ant can be an individual. No <u>single</u> ant matters, right?
I...I have no idea, sir.
So tell me. Where's Z?
Thank you, sir.
Good. You're a good soldier.
Oh, no, sir!
Well now <u>you</u> haven't fallen for this silly idea of individuality, have you?
Yeah...I mean...well...I don't know, really, sir.
So this Z...he fancies himself an individual?
Can't we all settle this like adults -- we're not larvae anymore --
Well it wasn't a masquerade, really, it was more what I'd call a clever ruse --
What's this? A <u>worker</u> has been masquerading as a war hero?!
Oh, of course --
May I cut in?
Oh, hey, that's great, I think I see an old war buddy over there, it's been fun chatting. Good luck with the hallucinations.
I tell you son, sometimes, at night, I see myself in battle, fighting a horrible, faceless enemy, with the future of our whole species at stake. And always, the dream ends with each of us plunging his sword into the other's heart...
Well I, I don't think "living it up" is the right term -- how about "working themselves to death"?
Negatory. <u>Too many ants</u>. And while we soldiers go out there, and fight, and bleed, and die for the colony, the namby-pamby workers live it up back home.
...Not enough food?
Yes, and do you know <u>why</u> there's a food shortage?
Wow, what a spread -- you know, there's a food shortage in the rest of the colony.
In love? I'm just a plain old soldier at heart. I'll tell you what I love -- the field -- blood -- death -- orders...and the company of other warriors.
So...you two are in love?
Engaged? As in you're getting married?
Well she better -- she's engaged to one. <u>Me</u>!
Well, I generally just make belittling comments and snicker behind death's back. So, tell me, fellow war-monger...do you think Princess Bala likes men in uniform?
Son, you're an ant after my own heart. A warrior. An ant that looks death right in the face and <u>laughs</u>.
ONE TO NOTHING!
Of course. The entire royal family will be there to honor you.
Royal victory party? Will...will Princess Bala be there?
Damn, I'm proud of you, boy. I wish I had a hundred ants of your caliber. The world would tremble. Now, time for some R and R. You're invited to the royal victory party!
No -- you -- you don't understand!
Dammit, I'm proud to be an ant. And I know each and every one of you boys will do your duty. Dismissed.
Geez, and I forgot my toothbrush.
Now I've heard a lot of scuttlebutt about a <u>food shortage</u>. Well you boys are gonna be taken care of. But in the meantime we're gonna eat the enemy for <u>breakfast</u>, we are gonna eat the enemy for <u>lunch</u>, and we are gonna eat the enemy for <u>dinner</u>!
Lays it on a little thick, doesn't he? If you ask me, he's one giant bore.
Alright, let's move out!
Very well, General -- I know you -- all work and no play!
'Fraid not, your majesty. Goodbye, your majesty.
But General -- this tunnel is your baby! You're sure you can't stay ?
Your majesty, I'm afraid matters of state keep me from attending the ceremony.
They should be... But there's something funny about that soldier.
All these parties are so marvellously <u>alike</u>.
I'll take your suggestion under advisement, Princess. In the meanwhile --
Look, General! A darling baby soldier! Don't try to be a hero! Just make sure you come back in one piece! Next!
Conversation...yes...well... Wasn't she briefed?
Yes, General Formica. Carry on, my good man! I don't know what we would do without you.
I do not recollect, your majesty. Will that be all?
No snacking between meals! Off you go! Now -- what were we saying?
Please don't worry, your majesty. Leave the worrying to me. As you know, I'm not an ant of half- measures. I don't pussyfoot around. This crisis is my number one priority, and I promise you it's being dealt with swiftly, and decisively.
Yes, what else?
We are launching a major offensive to expand our foraging territory...
General, the severe food shortage that faces the colony...<u>pains</u> me. The thought of any of my children going hungry... Who's the cutest widdle worker? You are! Yes, you! Don't forget to brush your teeth! Ship 'er out. What steps are you taking to remedy the situation?
But -- but I've always felt life was about finding meaning...and then sharing it with someone special, someone you love.
You see? Being an ant is being able to say, "Hey -- <u>I'm</u> meaningless, <u>you're</u> meaningless."
Right! Ants! Millions of creatures, each with his assigned task, all pulling together!
What do you see out there?
I'm glad you asked me that question!
Why are we so successful?
Ask me why we're so successful.
YES!!! You know, people ask me, "Doctor, why are you always happy?" And I tell them it's mind over matter. I don't <u>mind</u> that I don't <u>matter</u>! Do you get it? Do you get it?
Terrific! You <u>should</u> feel insignificant!
I feel...isolated. Different. I've got abandonment issues. My father flew away when I was just a larva. My mother didn't have much time for me...when you have five million siblings, it's difficult to get attention. I feel physically inadequate -- I've never been able to lift more than ten times my own weight. Sometimes I think I'm just not cut out to be a worker. But I don't have any other options. I was assigned to trade school when I was just a <u>grub</u>. The whole system just...makes me feel...<u>insignificant</u>.
You heard the ant -- DIG!!!
Yeah, but I hate drowning more! Now <u>dig</u>!
Don't tell anyone you're a worker. Follow that column over there. And come right back after the inspection!
What do I do?
Yeah, I know.
You're a real buddy.
Maybe I'll get lucky. You know, Z, I wouldn't do this for anyone but you...
You bet! They'll really go for a sensitive guy like you!
Will you introduce me to some worker girls?
Well I'm gonna <u>start</u> doing things for you...
I can't think of any.
You have to help me. Please, Weaver. Think of all the things I've done for you!
What's gonna go wrong?! I take your place for the royal inspection. Bala comes strolling down the line, she sees me -- <u>bingo</u>! Love is rekindled, and she takes me up to the palace for a little... tea and crumpets... and you take your place again, and go march around to your heart's content!
It's a sign that you're crazy! Do you know what the penalty for impersonating a soldier is?
Are you kidding? There were sparks between us! This scarf is a sign!
Get real, Z! She just dropped the scarf by accident!
Well, you just sit here and be a party-pooper.
I'm not in the mood. Even when they're off work, they follow orders.
Time to cut a rug, Z!
Poor guy's had one too many scouting missions.
Hey, did you hear what he said?!
Weaver, I'm an insect, not a liquid.
And all the time I've known you, you've been grumping and groaning. You should quit making waves. Go with the flow.
Of course. You were born two seconds after me.
Z, we've known each other a long time, right?
I can't help it. I have a thing about drinking from the anus of another creature. Call me crazy.
Who said there was a girl for you? I was talking about a girl for me. Don't you want your aphid beer?
Weaver, they're career girls. They're obsessed with digging. No, I'll probably never meet the girl for me.
Yeah, but you get to spend all day with those fabulous worker babes.
Come on -- everybody dumps on us workers. You soldiers get all the glory. Plus you get to go out into the world, meet interesting insects, and kill them.
I don't know what you're talking about, Z.
Did you see that? How he gave <u>you</u> the beers, not me? I'm telling you, he's got something against workers.
I'll be back.
We declared war again? Are you scared?
That's right. Maria Ouspenskaya. BLONDE Hiya, Ouspenskaya.
So this is your mother's apartment?
Under the mat?
Not there. Under the mat.
Don't worry about the old lady. One squawk from her, and she's out of a job.
I mean - barging in on your mother -- in the middle of the night?
You sure this is a good idea? DOBISCH Can't think of a better one.
Yeah. How much?
This the place?
That's sweet. That's real sweet.
I'm getting lonely. Who are you talking to, anyway?
You wash 'em, you break 'em. I'll come back for them later. If he makes trouble, give me a yell.
Look, Mrs. Dreyfuss, you don't have to wait around. I'll wash the dishes and --
What did I tell you?
One napkin, coming up. I wish we had some champagne to wrap it around.
You must eat -- and you must get healthy -- and you must forget him. Such a fine boy he seemed when he first moved in here -- clean and cut -- a regular Ivy Leaguer. Turns out he is King Farouk. Mit the drinking -- mit the cha cha -- mit the no napkins. A girl like you, for the rest of your life you want to cry in your noodle soup? Who needs it! You listen to me, you find yourself a nice, substantial man -- a widower maybe -- and settle down -- instead of nashing all those sleeping pills -- for what, for whom? -- for some Good Time Charlie? Sssh!
So what are you waiting for -- a singing commercial?
Yes, Mrs. Dreyfuss. He starts out with a worried backward glance toward the two. Fran is just sitting there, the spoon in her hand, not touching the soup.
Beatnik! Go to my kitchen -- third drawer, under the good silver, there is napkins.
Well, I have some paper towels --
You wouldn't have such a thing as a napkin, would you?
Big shot! For you, I wouldn't lift a finger -- but for her, I'll fix a little something to eat.
I didn't really do anything -- honest -- I mean, you take a girl out a couple of times a week -- just for laughs -- and right away she thinks you're serious -- marriage-wise.
From me the doctor has no secrets. Poor girl -- how could you do a thing like that?
Eggs he asks me for. Oranges. What you need is a good horse-whipping.
Mrs. Dreyfuss, can I borrow some coffee -- and maybe an orange and a couple of eggs?
Oh, you don't have to worry about that -- nothing in there that anybody would want to steal... Good night, Mrs. Dreyfuss.
Such a racket I heard in your place -- maybe you had burglars.
I seem to have dropped my key. Oh -- here it is.
Something the matter?
Oh. Hello there, Mrs. Dreyfuss.
It's a bet.
Shall we say -- a dollar?
I've been here twice as long as you have --
Care to make a small wager?
What gives, Baxter? You getting promoted or getting fired?
She's been trying to reach you for the last twenty minutes. They want you up stairs.
All right -- I'll tell him. Hey, Baxter -- that was Personnel. Mr. Sheldrake's secretary.
Shut up and deal!
Did you hear what I said, Miss Kubelik? I absolutely adore you.
Seven -- -- queen.
I love you, Miss Kubelik.
I'm going to send him a fruit cake every Christmas.
What about Mr. Sheldrake?
That's funny -- so am I. What did you do with the cards?
Where are you going? BUD Who knows? Another neighborhood -- another town -- another job -- I'm on my own.
Of course not.
Mind if I come in?
I'm fine all over.
Are you sure? How's your knee?
Are you all right?
Good night, Miss Kubelik.
Good night, Mr. Baxter.
That's very wise.
No. You know how people talk. So I decided it would be better if we didn't see each other till everything is settled, divorce-wise.
Aren't you meeting Mr. Sheldrake?
No, thank you. I -- well, to tell you the truth -- -- I have this heavy date for tonight --
Yes. You walking to the subway?
For that matter, you were wrong about me, too. What you said about those who take and those who get took? Well, Mr. Sheldrake wasn't using me -- I was using him. See? Last month I was at desk 861 on the nineteenth floor -- now I'm on the twenty-seventh floor, paneled office, three windows -- so it all worked out fine -- we're both getting what we want.
I guess so.
I told you all along. You see, you were wrong about Mr. Sheldrake.
I never thought he'd do it.
You mean, leaving his wife? Yeah. I'm very happy for you.
I know. I suppose you heard about Mr. Sheldrake --?
Nothing's changed. You know, we never finished that gin game --
How's everything at the apartment?
Fine. How's your eye?
Oh, Miss Kubelik. How do you feel?
So I want you to keep a clear head.
We're going to finish that gin game.
You don't have to if you don't want to --
I mean, after that?
You know what we're going to do after dinner?
Oh, no. Sometimes I have dinner with Ed Sullivan, sometimes with Dinah Shore or Perry Como -- the other night I had dinner with Mae West -- of course, she was much younger then. Cheers.
You usually eat alone?
You know, I used to live like Robinson Crusoe -- shipwrecked among eight million people. Then one day I saw a footprint in the sand -- and there you were -- It's a wonderful thing -- dinner for two.
Might as well go all the way.
I see you bought some napkins.
It's a must -- gracious-living-wise.
Shall I light the candles?
You ought to see my backhand. And wait till I serve the meatballs.
Say, you're pretty good with that racquet.
No -- just come as you are.
Are we dressing for dinner?
So let 'em. Look, I'm going to cook dinner for us. We'll have the fruit cake for dessert. You just sit there and rest. You've done enough for one day.
No, thanks. The fellows in the office may get the wrong idea how I found out.
Of course not. Here's the fruit cake. And you want to see my knee?
Are you just making that up to make me feel better?
Yeah. Took me a year before I could bend my knee -- but I got over the girl in three weeks. She still lives in Cincinnati, has four kids, gained twenty pounds -- she sends me a fruit cake every Christmas.
Uh-huh. While I was sitting there, trying to make my mind up, a cop stuck his head in the car, because I was illegally parked -- so I started to hide the gun under the seat and it went off -- pow!
In the knee?
Anyway, I parked the car and loaded the gun -- well, you read in the papers all the time that people shoot themselves, but believe me, it's not that easy -- I mean, how do you do it? -- here, or here, or here -- -- you know where I finally shot myself?
No, I don't.
Worse than that -- she was the wife of my best friend -- and I was mad for her. But I knew it was hopeless -- so I decided to end it all. I went to a pawnshop and bought a forty-five automatic and drove up to Eden Park -- do you know Cincinnati?
Over a girl?
Well, maybe not exactly -- I tried to do it with a gun.
I know how you feel, Miss Kubelik. You think it's the end of the world -- but it's not, really. I went through exactly the same thing myself.
I wonder how long it takes to get someone you're stuck on out of your system? If they'd only invent some kind of a pump for that --
You can't leave yet. The doctor says it takes forty-eight hours to get the stuff out of your system.
I really ought to be getting home. My family will be flipping by now.
I wouldn't say that -- What would you like to have for diner? There's onion soup and canned asparagus --
Some people take, some people get took -- and they know they're getting took -- and there's nothing they can do about it.
I know so. He's a taker.
I guess so.
You mean to someone like Mr. Sheldrake.
It's just that I'm the kind of guy who can't say no -- I don't mean to girls -- I mean --
Yes, you are, When I was straightening up the couch, you know what I found? Six hairpins, a lipstick, a pair of false eyelashes, and a swizzle stick from the Stork Club.
As a matter of fact, I'm a pretty good cook -- but I'm a lousy housekeeper.
Tennis racquet? Oh, I remember -- I was cooking myself an Italian dinner. I used it to strain the spaghetti. FRAN Why not?
Well, things are a little disorganized around here.
It's very curious -- I could only find three and a half pair.
I was washing my stockings, so I decided I might as well do your socks.
What are you doing with that?
In this house, you're supposed to.
Are you supposed to?
You turned it on -- but you didn't light it.
Yes. I was boiling some water to get the coffee stains out of my dress.
Gas. Didn't you turn it on?
Sure. What's that funny smell?
Are you all right?
I think you should. I have to run down to the grocery anyway -- all that's left around here is one frozen pizza -- I'll be right back -- okay?
I don't want to talk to him.
-- Mr. Sheldrake.
There's a call for you --
Yeah. Well -- that's the way it crumbles, cookie-wise. Go to sleep.
Why can't I ever fall in love with somebody nice like you?
Please, Miss Kubelik, you got to promise me you won't do anything foolish.
So they'll shoot me -- like a horse.
It's only one story down -- the best you can do is break a leg.
I just want some fresh air.
Now don't go getting any ideas, Miss Kubelik.
Would you mind opening the window?
Just somebody delivering a bottle of champagne. Like some?
Who was that?
You sure you want to throw that card?
You bet. I got a terrific hand.
Do I have to?
Pick up your cards and let's go.
I don't like myself very much anyway.
Well, for one thing, you can't spell. And secondly -- if you did something like that -- you'd hate yourself.
Miss Kubelik, I don't think that's such a good idea.
As one woman to another -- I'm sure she'll understand --
I'm going to write a letter to Mrs. Sheldrake.
Can I have that pad and the pencil?
No doubt about it.
You really think so?
I'm sure that's the explanation.
Maybe he does love me -- only he doesn't have the nerve to tell his wife.
Mr. Sheldrake? Oh, yes. Very.
Was he really upset when you told him?
You better win a hand -- you're on a blitz.
Oh. I can type up a storm, but I can't spell. So they gave me a pair of white gloves and stuck me in an elevator -- that's how I met Jeff -- Oh, God, I'm so fouled up. What am I going to do now?
So I came to New York and moved in with my sister and her husband -- he drives a cab. They sent me to secretarial school, and I applied for a job with Consolidated - but I flunked the typing test --
Three. The last one was manager of a finance company, back home in Pittsburgh -- they found a little shortage in his accounts, but he asked me to wait for him -- he'll be out in 1965.
I just have this talent for falling in love with the wrong guy in the wrong place at the wrong time. BUD How many guys were there?
I was fifteen -- we used to go there to smoke. His name was George -- he threw me over for a drum majorette.
That's me with men. I've been jinxed from the word go -- first time I was ever kissed was in a cemetery.
A bad insurance risk?
What do you call it when somebody keeps getting smashed up in automobile accidents?
Pick a card.
I don't want it.
Yeah -- I know what you mean. Queen.
Why do people have to love people, anyway?
Give what up?
I think I'm going to give it all up.
You don't have to entertain me.
I am. Let me get the cards.
I'm not very good at it.
You want me to move the television set in here? You play gin rummy?
That's right. Will you see that Mr. Sheldrake gets it?
There's nothing here but a hundred dollar bill.
Yes, I've got it. Don't you think we'd better destroy it? So it won't fall into the wrong hands -- ?
Oh. Did you find something here -- an envelope -- ?
Oh, I don't mind. As a matter of fact, I'm sort of flattered -- that anybody should think a girl like you -- would do a thing like this -- over a guy like me.
She doesn't seem to like you very much.
He's a liar. But that's not the worst part of it -- the worst part is -- I still love him.
Oh, you're wrong. He told me --
He doesn't give a damn about me.
I didn't mean it that way -- I was just talking to him on the phone -- he's very concerned about you.
Thanks for reminding me.
That's why we have to be careful -- we don't want to involve anybody -- after all, Mr. Sheldrake is a married man --
But they'll be worried about me -- my brother-in-law may be calling the police --
Miss Kubelik, I don't think you ought to call anybody -- not till that chewing gum is out of your head.
They had to pump it out.
No -- it's my stomach.
Something wrong with your legs?
As soon as I can walk.
When are you coming home?
What's her first name?
What's your friend's name?
I mean -- her apartment.
In his apartment.
And where are you now?
Someone from the office.
I'll tell her I spent the night with a friend.
You better figure it out -- exactly. Suppose she asks you why you didn't come home last night?
Well, I haven't figured it out, exactly.
Wait a minute -- let's talk this over first. Just what are you going to tell her?
My sister -- she'll want to know what happened to me.
Who are you calling, Miss Kubelik?
I'll fix you some coffee.
No -- I don't want anything.
Here. How about some breakfast?
Oh -- of course. I think there's a new toothbrush somewhere.
I just want to go brush my teeth --
Miss Kubelik, I'm stronger than you are --
Sure I do. It's always nice to have company for Christmas.
You don't want me here --
You're in no condition to go anywhere -- except back to bed.
Where's my dress? I have to go home.
My head -- it feels like a big wad of chewing gum. What time is it?
What kind of talk is that? So you got a little over- emotional -- but you're fine now.
I'm so ashamed. Why didn't you just let me die?
Let me help you.
I didn't know -- I had no idea this was your apartment --
Miss Kubelik -- -- you shouldn't be out of bed.
I'm sorry, Mr. Baxter.
I'm so tired -- DR. DREYFUSS Here -- drink this.
It's not important, Fran -- the main thing is that I got here in time -- and you're going to be all right -- -- isn't she, Doc?
I don't understand --
That's right. I told you we had a fight -- that's what it was about -- Miss Olsen -- you know that other girl you saw --
Oh, yes -- office party -- Miss Olsen --
Don't you remember? We were at the office party together --
All right. Have a nice Christmas.
Oh. Yes? Just a minute. If you don't mind -- this is sort of personal
I know. I like it this way -- makes me look the way I feel.
The mirror -- it's broken.
What is it?
After all, this is a conservative firm -- I don't want people to think I'm an entertainer --
You don't think it's tilted a little too much --
I think so.
No problem. Why don't we discuss it sometime over the holidays -- I could call you and pick you up and we'll have the big unveiling -- -- you sure this is the right way to wear it?
I'm afraid there are too many other girls around here with seniority over me.
I thought maybe I could put in a word for you with Mr. Sheldrake -- get you a little promotion -- how would you like to be an elevator starter?
He and I are like this. Sent me a Christmas card. See?
Oh, you don't have to worry about that. I have quite a bit of influence in Personnel. You know Mr. Sheldrake?
I'd better get back to my elevator. I don't want to be fired.
I understand. Christmas -- family and all that --
This is a bad day for me.
Well, as long as you wouldn't be ashamed to be seen with me -- how about the three of us going out this evening -- you and me and the bowler -- stroll down Fifth Avenue -- sort of break it in --
Maybe if I wore it a little more to the side -- is that better?
Of course not.
Really? You mean you wouldn't be ashamed to be seen with somebody in a hat like this?
No -- I like it.
Guess I made a boo-boo, huh?
Why don't we step into any office? There's something I want your advice about, anyway. I have my own office now, naturally. And you may be interested to know I'm the second youngest executive in the company -- the only one younger is a grandson of the chairman of the board.
Nothing. There are just too many people here.
You all right? What's the matter?
I thought so.
How many of those drinks did you have?
Don't you believe it. Later on there will be human sacrifices -- white collar workers tossed into the computing machines, and punched full of those little square holes.
Why not? They seem friendly enough.
By the power vested in me, I herewith declare this elevator out of order. Shall we join the natives?
You're so right.
I shouldn't drink when I'm driving.
Miss Kubelik, one doesn't get to be a second administrative assistant around here unless he's a pretty good judge of character -- and as far as I'm concerned, you're tops. I mean, decency-wise -- and otherwise-wise. Cheers.
Don't be too sure. Just because I wear a uniform -- that doesn't make me a Girl Scout.
You couldn't help yourself. I mean, when you're having a drink with one man, you can't just suddenly walk out on him because you have another date with another man. You did the only decent thing.
I forgive you.
I don't blame you. It was unforgivable.
Well, as a matter of fact, I was rather hurt when you stood me up that night --
In the last six weeks you've only been in my elevator once -- and then you didn't take your hat off.
What gave you that idea?
Thank you. I thought you were avoiding me.
Well, don't tell the fellows in the office about the appendix. They may get the wrong idea how you found out. 'Bye.
I know your height, your weight and your Social Security number -- you had mumps, you had measles, and you had your appendix out.
A couple of months ago I looked up your card in the group insurance file.
Oh, I even know who you live with -- your sister and brother-in- law -- I know when you were born -- and where -- I know all sorts of things about you.
Sounds good. How do you know where I live?
They got a great little band at El Chico, in the Village -- it's practically around the corner from where you live.
So I see.
What cold? And after the show, we could go out on the town -- I've been taking from Arthur Murray.
How is your cold?
You know, I felt so lousy this morning -- a hundred and one fever -- then my promotion came up -- now you and I -- eleventh row center -- and you said I should have stayed in bed.
Meet you in the lobby. Okay?
All right? That's wonderful! It's the Majestic -- 44th Street.
Well -- I could meet you at the theatre -- if that's all right.
What time does the show go on?
Well, it was just an idea -- I hate to see a ticket go to waste --
Oh, I understand.
I'm afraid not. I promised to have a drink with him -- he's been calling me all week --
Well, in that case, couldn't you -- ?
It used to be serious -- at least I was -- but he wasn't -- so the whole thing is more or less kaputt.
This date -- is it just a date -- or is it something serious?
Just tell 'em -- now and then.
I wasn't trying to be personal -- it's just that the fellows in the office were -- whether you wondering about you ever --
No. Like a man.
Oh. You mean -- like a girl-friend?
I'm sorry, but I can't tonight. I'm meeting somebody.
You mean tonight?
I thought maybe we could have a bite to eat first -- and then --
Would you like to?
Great. Look -- have you seen The Music Man?
How'd you make out on the twenty- seventh floor?
I almost didn't recognize you -- this is the first time I've ever seen you in civilian clothes.
Oh -- Miss Kubelik. I've been waiting for you. FRAN You have?
I hope so. Wouldn't you know they'd call me on a day like this -- with my cold and everything -- How do I look?
I hope everything goes all right.
I'd love to hear them. Maybe we could have lunch in the cafeteria sometime -- or some evening, after work --
The characters you meet. Something happens to men in elevators. Must be the change of altitude -- the blood rushes to their head, or something -- boy, I could tell you stories --
Couldn't happen to a nicer guy. You know, you're the only one around here who ever takes his hat off in the elevator.
Why not? Now that they're kicking me upstairs --
You're beginning to sound like Mr. Kirkeby already.
You may not realize it, Miss Kubelik, but I'm in the top ten -- efficiency-wise and this may be the day -- promotion-wise.
I should have stayed in bed last night.
You should have stayed in bed this morning.
Well, to make the figures come out even -- since I have no colds a year -- some poor slob must have five colds a year.
That makes me feel just terrible.
Really? I was looking at some figures from the Sickness and Accident Claims Division -- do you know that the average New Yorker between the ages of twenty and fifty has two and a half colds a year?
Oh, I never catch colds.
Yeah. I better not get too close.
Say, you got a lulu.
I sort of like it.
It was making me nervous, so I chopped it off. Big mistake, huh?
What did you do to your hair?
Morning, Miss Kubelik.
Morning, Mr. Baxter.
I thought I smelled gas coming from your apartment.
Oh, Mr. Baxter -- I'm glad you're here -- I was just going to get the passkey.
I'm warning you, Mr. Baxter -- this is a respectable house, not a honky-tonky. Come on, Oscar.
Don't worry about Dr. Dreyfuss -- I happen to know he was out on a case.
What you get from renting to bachelors. All night I didn't sleep ten minutes -- and I'm sure you woke up Dr. Dreyfuss.
I'm sorry, Mrs. Lieberman -- and I'll never invite those people again.
All that marching -- tramp, tramp, tramp -- you were having army maneuvers maybe?
So who did you think it was -- Kris Kringle? What was going on here last night?
Oh -- Mrs. Lieberman.
Good night, Mr. Baxter.
No, no. Just waiting for a friend. Good night, Mrs. Lieberman.
Some weather we're having. Must be from all the meshugass at Cape Canaveral. You locked out of your apartment?
Good evening, Mrs. Lieberman.
Good evening, Mr. Baxter.
Save it. The old payola won't work any more. Goodbye, Mr. Sheldrake.
Now hold on, Baxter --
Just following doctor's orders. I've decided to become a mensch. You know what that means? A human being.
What's gotten into you, Baxter?
That's right, Mr. Sheldrake. I won't be needing it -- because I'm all washed up around here.
But this is the key to the executive washroom.
No I didn't.
Say, Baxter -- you gave me the wrong key.
Thank you, sir.
Now you're being bright?
So what's it going to be?
Baxter, I picked you for my team because I thought you were a bright young man. You realize what you're doing? Not to me -- but to yourself. Normally it takes years to work your way up to the twenty-seventh floor -- but it takes only thirty seconds to be out on the street again. You dig?
How's that again?
Especially not Miss Kubelik.
I'm not just bringing anybody -- I'm bringing Miss Kubelik.
You're not going to bring anybody up to my apartment.
What do you mean, sorry?
Sorry, Mr. Sheldrake.
Now I'll have to borrow your key.
You know that other key to your apartment -- well, when we had that little scare about Miss Kubelik, I thought I'd better get rid of it quick -- so I threw it out the window of the commuter train.
Don't mind what?
The only thing is I'm staying at the Athletic Club -- and it's strictly stag so if you don't mind --
Me, too. I'm taking Miss Kubelik out -- I finally talked her into it --
I suppose you'll be on the town tonight -- celebrating?
You're working too hard, Baxter. It's New Year's Eve -- relax.
Here's the breakdown of figures on personnel turnover. Thirty-seven percent of our female employees leave to get married, twenty-two percent quit because --
I got kicked in the head, too.
That's just one of the privileges that goes with this job. You also get a nice little expense account, the use of the executive washroom -- Say, what happened to you, Baxter?
Oh, sure, sure. But first the property settlement has to be worked out -- then it takes six weeks in Reno -- meanwhile, I'm going to enjoy being a bachelor for a while. Oh, by the way, you can now have lunch in the executive dining room --
Well, it's just that so many things have been happening so fast -- I'm very pleased -- especially for Miss Kubelik. Now that I've gotten to know her better, I think she's the kind of girl that definitely ought to be married to somebody --
My assistant, Roy Thompson, has been shifted to the Denver office, and you're taking his place. What's the matter, Baxter? You don't seem very excited.
You like? It's all yours.
Swell. And don't think I've forgotten what you did for me. This way, Baxter.
It's about Miss Kubelik -- she's all right again -- so she went back home.
Now what was your news, Baxter?
Well, if you must know -- I fired my secretary, my secretary got to my wife, and my wife fired me. Ain't that a kick in the head?
You left your wife?
That's right. I've moved out of my house -- I'm going to be staying in town, at the Athletic Club.
You're going to take her off my hands?
I know how worried you were about Miss Kubelik -- well, stop worrying -- I'm going to take her off your hands.
And I've got good news for you, Baxter. All your troubles are over.
Mr. Sheldrake, I've got good news for you --
Like what? Put yourself in my place, Baxter -- how can I help her -- my hands are tied --
For me? I don't think so. But I was hoping maybe you could do something for her --
Oh. Well, if there's anything I can do for you --
No, thank you, Mr. Sheldrake. As a matter of fact, I've got some money for you -- a hundred dollars --
Good. Is there anything you need -- money -- ?
Yes, she's in the shower -- she's coming along fine, considering.
Yes, sir -- I understand. She left a note -- you want me to open it and read it to you? Well, it was just a suggestion -- no, you don't have to worry about that, Mr. Sheldrake -- I kept your name out of it so there'll be no trouble, police-wise or newspaper- wise --
That's impossible. You'll have to handle this situation yourself -- as a matter of fact, I'm counting on you --
I thought maybe you'd like to be here when she wakes up.
I didn't want to tell you over the phone but that certain party -- you know who I mean -- I found her here last night -- she had taken an overdose of sleeping pills.
You're not making sense, Baxter. What's this all about?
I hate to disturb you, but something came up -- it's rather important -- and I think it would be a good idea if you could see me -- at the apartment -- as soon as possible.
Hello? -- yes -- what's on your mind, Baxter?
Roger. And I'll get that other key.
Put me down for Thursday again.
Yes, sir. That's the life, all right.
Yeah. You know, Baxter, I envy you. Bachelor -- all the dames you want -- no headaches, no complications --
No, sir. That's very unfair -- especially to your wife.
You see a girl a couple of times a week -- just for laughs -- and right away she thinks you're going to divorce your wife. I ask you -- is that fair?
I know how it is.
You know how it is -- sooner or later they all give you a bad time.
So it was. She threw it at me.
The mirror is broken. It was broken when I found it.
Oh, yes. Thanks.
I mean -- the young lady -- whoever she may be -- it was on the couch when I got home last night.
Yes, sir. You can't be too careful.
No, you don't understand. She's a busybody -- always poking her nose into things -- and with that key passing back and forth -- why take chances?
Oh, yes. Very attractive. Is she -- the lucky one?
You know my secretary -- Miss Olsen --
Well -- I guess so.
Fine. And I want you to know I'll work very hard to justify your confidence in me -- SHELDRAKE Sure you will. Say, Baxter, about the apartment - now that you got a raise, don't you think we can afford a second key?
I like the way you handled that. Well, how does it feel to be an executive?
Don't thank me -- thank your friends here -- they're the ones who recommended you.
Oh, yes, sir. Very much. And I want to thank you --
Morning, gentlemen. Everything satisfactory? You like your office?
You too, sir.
Here you are, Baxter. Have a nice time.
Oh, no sir. Certainly not. Anyway, it's none of my business -- four apples, five apples -- what's the difference -- percentage-wise?
Not that I have anything to hide.
Oh, you don't have to worry --
You know how people talk.
Yes, of course.
Now remember, Baxter -- this is going to be our little secret.
Thank you, sir.
Oh -- terribly sorry. It's that cold --
Now put down the key -- -- and put down the address.
That's good thinking, Baxter. Next month there's going to be a shift in personnel around here -- and as far as I'm concerned, you're executive material.
It also says here -- that you are alert, astute, and quite imaginative --
Swap them? For what?
I'm not just giving those tickets, Baxter -- I want to swap them.
So do I -- I'm going to take four aspirins and get into bed -- so you better give the tickets to somebody else --
Baxter, you're not reading me. I told you I have plans.
Well, that's very kind of you -- only I'm not feeling well -- you see, I have this cold -- and I thought I'd go straight home.
I made other plans. You can have both tickets.
You mean -- you and me? I thought you were taking the branch manager from Kansas City --
How would you like to go tonight?
Not yet. But I hear it's one swell show.
The reason I called is -- I won't be home for dinner tonight. The branch manager from Kansas City is in town -- I'm taking him to the theatre Music Man, what else? No, don't wait up for me -- 'bye, darling. Tell me something, Baxter -- have you seen Music Man?
I'm not through with you yet.
Well, I don't want to intrude -- and I thought -- since it's all straightened out anyway --
Where are you going, Baxter?
Well, usually I slip it to them in the office and they leave it under the mat -- but never again -- I can promise you that --
How do you work it with the key?
West 67th Street. You have no idea what I've been going through -- with the neighbors and the landlady and the liquor and the key --
Where is your apartment?
Oh, it won't. Believe me. And it's not going to happen again. From now on, nobody is going to use my apartment --
That's not the point. Four rotten apples in a barrel -- no matter how large the barrel -- you realize that if this ever leaked out --
Just those four -- out of a total of 31,259 -- so actually, we can be very proud of our personnel -- percentage-wise.
Baxter, an insurance company is founded on public trust. Any employee who conducts himself in a manner unbecoming -- How many charter members are there in this little club of yours?
Well, about six months ago -- I was going to night school, taking this course in Advanced Accounting -- and one of the guys in our department -- he lives in Jersey -- he was going to a banquet at the Biltmore -- his wife was meeting him in town, and he needed someplace to change into a tuxedo -- so I gave him the key and word must have gotten around -- because the next thing I knew, all sorts of guys were suddenly going to banquets -- and when you give the key to one guy, you can't say no to another and the whole thing got out of hand -- pardon me.
No, sir. I'm not going to deny it. But if you'd just let me explain --
Are you going to deny it?
Loyal, cooperative, resourceful C. C. Baxter.
There's a certain key floating around the office -- from Kirkeby to Vanderhof to Eichelberger to Dobisch -- it's the key to a certain apartment -- and you know who that apartment belongs to?
What kind of joint are you running?
What -- what's that got to do with me? I'm not running any bookie joint.
That's right, Baxter.
The Vice Squad?
In 1957, we had an employee here, name of Fowler. He was very popular, too. Turned out he was running a bookie joint right in the Actuarial Department tying up the switchboard, figuring the odds on our I.B.M. machines -- so the day before the Kentucky Derby, I called in the Vice Squad and we raided the thirteenth floor.
Look, Baxter, I'm not stupid. I know everything that goes on in this building -- in every department -- on every floor -- every day of the year.
Would you mind repeating the question?
I don't know.
Tell me, Baxter -- just what is it that makes you so popular?
That's very flattering.
Mr. Vanderhof, in Public Relations, and Mr. Eichelberger, in Mortgage and Loan -- they'd both like to have you transferred to their departments.
Well, you know how it is -- things pile up.
And Mr. Kirkeby tells me that several nights a week you work late at the office -- without overtime.
Mr. Dobisch said that?
Been hearing some very nice things about you -- here's a report from Mr. Dobisch -- loyal, cooperative, resourceful --
Yes, Mr. Sheldrake.
I was sort of wondering what you looked like. Sit down.
On account of me.
What does he mean, accident?
No, no -- just had a little accident.
Fran been sick or something?
Oh, this is Mr. Matuschka -- he's Miss Kubelik's -- he's got a cab downstairs --
What's the matter with Miss Kubelik?
Look, Buddy-boy -- if there wasn't a lady present, I'd clobber you.
All we were going to do is eat and wash the dishes --
Now, wait a minute. I know what you're thinking -- but it's not as bad as it looks -- MATUSCHKA It's none of my business what you do, Fran -- you're over twenty- one -- but your sister happens to think you're a lady.
Okay, get your clothes on. I got the cab downstairs.
How do you do, Mr. Matuschka?
Say, why don't we have ourselves a party -- the four of us?
Now will you get out?
Buddy-boy, why didn't you say so? You got yourself a little playmate, huh?
Are you going to leave, Mr. Kirkeby, or do I have to throw you out?
Baxter, I don't want to pull rank on you -- but I told the lady it was all set -- you want to make a liar out of me?
Look, you can't stay here. Just take your champagne and go.
What's the matter with you, Buddy- boy? I made a reservation for four o'clock, remember?
You can't come in.
What do I -- ? Just a minute.
What do you want?
So long, fellas. Drop in any time. The door is always open -- to my office.
So long, Baxter. We know you won't let us down.
Oh, I'm very grateful.
Baxter, we're a little disappointed in you -- gratitude-wise.
Well -- it's all right with me, Bud. Let me check. I'll get back to you.
Instead of Friday -- could you possibly switch to Thursday? You'd be doing me a great favor --
Hello? Yeah, Baxter. What's up?
Listen to him. Little Lord Fauntleroy!
Could be she's just a nice, respectable girl -- there are millions of them.
A lot of guys around here have tried it -- all kinds of approaches -- no dice. What is she trying to prove?
Maybe you're using the wrong approach.
I'm a pretty good operator myself -- but she just won't give me a tumble -- date-wise.
Oh, yes. She's the best operator in the building.
That Kubelik -- boy! Would I like to get her on a slow elevator to China.
Yes, sir. They are indeed.
Oh, how are you, Baxter. They keeping you busy these days?
Good morning, Mr. Kirkeby.
I'll pay you on Friday. And whatever happened to those little cheese crackers you used to have around?
Yes, Mr. Kirkeby. You still owe me for the last two bottles --
Well, lay in some vodka and some vermouth -- and put my name on it.
I know. Mr. Eichelberger -- in the Mortgage Loan Department -- last night he had a little Halloween party here --
You're on your way up, Buddy-boy. And you're practically out of liquor.
That's right. We were discussing our department -- manpower-wise -- and promotion-wise -- -- and I told him what a bright boy you were. They're always on the lookout for young executives. BUD Thank you, Mr. Kirkeby.
Sure, sure. Look, kid -- I put in a good word for you with Sheldrake, in Personnel.
I don't mind in the summer -- but on a rainy night -- and I haven't had any dinner yet --
I know, Buddy-boy, I know. But those things don't always run on schedule -- like a Greyhound bus.
Mr. Kirkeby, I don't like to complain -- but you were supposed to be out of here by eight.
Listen, Baxter, we made you and we can break you.
You threatening me?
You'll be a lot sorrier before we're through with you.
I sympathize with your problem -- and believe me, I'm very sorry --
Well, after all, it's my apartment -- it's private property -- it's not a public playground.
We went to bat for you -- and now you won't play ball with us.
I have a vague idea.
Teamwork -- that's what counts in an organization like this. All for one and one for all -- know what I mean?
Thank you, Mr. Dobisch.
That's a shame. I'll send the key right down. And about your promotion -- -- I'm sending that efficiency report right up to Mr. Sheldrake, in Personnel. I wouldn't be surprised if you heard from him before the day is over.
And I couldn't get into my apartment -- so at four a. m. I had to wake up the landlady and give her a whole song and dance about going out to mail a letter and the door slamming shut.
It is? Well, how about that? No wonder I couldn't get into the executive washroom this morning.
Oh, I found a key there, all right -- only it's the wrong key.
I did, didn't I? I distinctly remember bending over and putting it there --
It's not Picasso I'm calling about. It's the key -- to my apartment -- you were supposed to leave it under the mat.
Oh, Buddy-boy. I was just about to call you. I'm sorry about that mess on the living room wall. You see, my little friend, she kept insisting Picasso was a bum -- so she started to do that mural -- but I'm sure it will wash off -- just eyebrow pencil.
Yes, Mr. Dobisch.
Let me worry about that. Just leave the key under the mat and clear out.
I'm all out of liquor -- and there's no clean glasses -- no cheese crackers -- no nothing.
Make it thirty minutes. What do you say, Bud?
It's only eleven -- and I just want the place for forty-five minutes.
Of course not. But -- how can I be efficient in the office if I don't get enough sleep at night?
Look, Baxter -- we're making out the monthly efficiency rating -- and I'm putting you in the top ten. Now you don't want to louse yourself up, do you?
I don't care if it is Marilyn Monroe -- I'm already in bed -- and I've taken a sleeping pill -- so I'm afraid the answer is no.
Buddy-boy -- she won't keep that long -- not even on ice. Listen, kid, I can't pass this up -- she looks like Marilyn Monroe.
I'm sorry, Mr. Dobisch. You know I like to help you guys out -- but it's sort of late -- so why don't we make it some other time?
That's okay, Buddy-boy. Now like I was saying, I'm in this joint on Sixty-first -- and I think I got lucky -- -- she's a skater with the Ice Show -- -- and I thought maybe I could bring her up for a quiet drink.
Oh, yes, Mr. Dobisch. I didn't recognize your voice --
Dobisch -- Joe Dobisch, in Administration.
Well, that's very nice of you -- but who is this?
Hiya, Buddy-boy. I'm in this bar on Sixty-first Street -- and I got to thinking about you -- and I figured I'd give you a little buzz.
Quite an office -- name on the door -- rug on the floor -- the whole schmear.
Wednesday -- Wednesday -- I got somebody penciled in -- let me see what I can do -- I'll get back to you.
Okay, you made your point. We'll just have to do it next Wednesday -- that's the only night of the week I can get away.
Oh, no. I'd get pneumonia -- and if I got pneumonia, I'd be in bed for a month -- and if I were in bed for a month --
Buddy-boy, that's the worst thing you can do. If you got a cold, you should go to a Turkish bath -- spend the night there -- sweat it out --
Thank you, Mr. Vanderhof. But I'm sick -- I have this terrible cold -- and a fever -- and I got to go to bed right after work.
That's not like you, Baxter. Just the other day, at the staff meeting, I was telling Mr. Sheldrake what a reliable man you were.
I hate to disappoint you -- I mean, many happy returns -- but not tonight --
Cancel? But it's her birthday -- I already ordered the cake --
Look, Mr. Vanderhof -- I've got you down here for tonight -- but I'm going to be using the place myself -- so I'll have to cancel.
Dear Mr. MacIntosh -- Vanderhof, Public Relations. Oh, yes, Baxter. Just a minute. All right, Miss Finch -- type up what we got so far. Now what is it, Baxter?
Happy New Year.
You know me with girls. Easy come, easy go. Goodbye, Doc.
Forget it -- I didn't do it as a doctor -- I did it as a neighbor. By the way, whatever happened to her?
No, thanks -- I don't feel like it. Look, Doc -- in case I don't see you again -- how much do I owe you for taking care of that girl?
Booze we don't need. Why don't you join us, Baxter? We got two brain surgeons, an ear, nose and throat specialist, a proctologist, and three nurses from Bellevue.
Can you use a bottle of champagne?
Me? Oh, you mean my body. Don't worry, Doc -- it'll go to the University -- I'll put it in writing --
Sorry to lose you, Baxter.
I don't know. All I know is I got to get out of this place.
Where are you moving to?
Yeah -- I'm giving up the apartment.
What's this -- you packing?
Well, I have things to do --
How come you're alone on New Year's Eve?
Say, Baxter -- we're having a little party and we ran out of ice -- so I was wondering --
Not you -- Miss Kubelik.
Oh, I'm fine, Doc.
How's the patient?
But you're not out of the woods yet, Baxter -- because most of them try it again! You know where I am if you need me.
Yeah, wasn't I?
A mansch -- a human being! So you got off easy this time -- so you were lucky --
I'm not sure.
I don't know what you did to that girl in there -- and don't tell me -- but it was bound to happen, the way you carry on. Live now, pay later. Diner's Club! Why don't you grow up, Baxter? Be a mensch! You know what that means?
Well, as a doctor, I guess I can't prove it wasn't an accident. But as your neighbor, I'd like to kick your keester clear around the block. Mind if I cool this off?
It's just that she's got a family -- and there's the people in the office -- look, Doc, can't you forget you're a doctor -- let's just say you're here as a neighbor --
She didn't mean it, Doc -- it was an accident -- she had a little too much to drink and -- she didn't know what she was doing -- there was no suicide note or anything -- believe me, Doc, I'm not thinking about myself --
Why do you want to know, Doc? You don't have to report this, do you?
What's her address? Where does she live?
Kubelik -- with two k's.
How do you spell her last name?
Any of that coffee left?
These cases are harder on the doctor than on the patient. I ought to charge you by the mile.
Just as long as she's okay.
She'll sleep on and off for the next twenty-four hours. Of course, she'll have a dandy hangover when she wakes up --
Well -- we work in the same building -- and we try to keep it quiet --
Mister -- Miss -- such politeness!
Hello, Miss Kubelik.
Fran, I'm a doctor. I'm here because you took too many sleeping pills. Do you understand what I'm saying? Fran, I'm Dr. Dreyfuss -- I'm here to help you. You took all those sleeping pills -- remember?
Miss Kubelik -- Fran.
What's her name?
You know, Baxter, you're a real cutie-pie -- yes, you are.
Something like that.
So you went right out and picked yourself up another dame.
I don't know -- I mean -- I wasn't here -- you see -- we had some words earlier -- nothing serious, really -- what you might call a lovers' quarrel --
Want to tell me what happened?
Get that stuff out of her stomach -- if it isn't too late. You better put some coffee on -- and pray.
What are you going to do, Doc?
It was half-full -- about a dozen or so. You going to have to take her to the hospital?
How many pills were in that bottle?
She going to be all right, Doc?
Let me get my bag.
There's a girl in my place -- she took some sleeping pills -- you better come quick -- I can't wake her up.
Slow down, kid.
My body? I'm afraid you guys would be disappointed. Good night, Doc.
When you make out your will -- and the way you're going, you should -- would you mind leaving your body to the University?
You know, Baxter -- I'm doing some research at the Columbia Medical Center -- and I wonder if you could do us a favor?
Yeah. Well -- see you, Doc.
Sometimes, there's a twi-night double-header. A nebbish like you!
I'm sorry if it gets noisy --
As a matter of fact, you must be an iron man all around. From what I hear through the walls, you got something going for you every night.
Oh, that's not me. It's just that once in a while, I have some people in for a drink.
Say, Baxter -- the way you're belting that stuff, you must have a pair of cast-iron kidneys.
Oh. 'Bye, Doc.
Yeah. Some clown at Schrafft's 57th Street ate a club sandwich, and forgot to take out the toothpick.
Hi, Doc. Had a late call?
Good evening, Baxter.
You bet I will. And when I tell him how you treated me, he'll push your face in. You fink!
Here -- find yourself a phone booth and call your husband in Havana.
Nothing. Just clear out, will you?
Say, what's going on here, anyway?
It's an emergency -- see you some other time.
What's the matter? Did I do something wrong?
The party's over.
Not so rough, honey.
I'm with you, lover.
Well, they haven't got me yet, baby. Dig up some ice from the kitchen and let's not waste any time -- preliminary-wise.
Gee. Sort of gives you goose-bumps just to think about it.
Ask anybody around here. As a matter of fact, when it's time for me to go -- and I may go just like that -- -- I have promised my body to the Columbia Medical Center.
Mrs. MacDougall, I think it is only fair to warn you that you are now alone with a notorious sexpot.
Say, this is Snugsville.
I don't know you at all. BUD Permit me -- C.C. Baxter -- junior executive, Arthur Murray graduate, lover.
Stuck on her! Obviously, you don't know me very well.
Still stuck on her, huh.
She may be a girl -- but she's no friend of mine.
You got a girl-friend?
Can I ask you a personal question?
Poor Mickey -- when I think of him all by himself in that jail in Havana -- -- want to see his picture?
Might as well go to mine -- everybody else does.
Where do we go -- my place or yours?
I said I had no family -- I didn't say I had an empty apartment.
A night like this, it sort of spooks you to walk into an empty apartment.
'Twas the night before Christmas And all through the house Not a creature was stirring -- Nothing -- No action -- Dullsville! You married?
Well, you can't win 'em all.
Mickey? He wouldn't do nothing like that. He's a jockey. They caught him doping a horse.
Oh. Mixed up in that revolution?
My husband. He's in Havana -- in jail.
Who is Mickey?
All I wanted him to do was let Mickey out for Christmas.
Because as far as I'm concerned, he's a no good fink. Two weeks ago I wrote him a letter -- never even answered me.
What about him?
You know, that big-shot down in Cuba with the crazy beard.
You like Castro? I mean -- how do you feel about Castro? BUD What is Castro?
Yeah, he's punchy. Talking to himself.
That guy really must've belted him.
Hit by a swinging door? Or maybe a Yellow Cab?
Hi, Buddy-boy. What happened to you?
Yeah. What's Buddy-boy done for us lately?
Why not? We don't owe Buddy-boy anything.
I see. What do you think, Al? Can we help the man?
What gripes me is the two of them were guzzling my champagne while Sylvia and I wound up at the Guggenheim Museum.
Toot? It's more like a lost weekend. Neither of them showed up for work today.
No kidding. Buddy-boy and Kubelik having themselves a little toot!
-- so yesterday afternoon I take Sylvia up to the apartment, and guess who he's got stashed away in the bedroom?
You can't sleep. Come on, Fran -- open your eyes. Let's get her walking. We've got to keep her awake for the next couple of hours.
Please -- just let me sleep.
Mr. Baxter -- nineteenth floor.
Do you know who this is? Look at him.
I don't know.
Yes, you do. Now concentrate.
Do you know where you are, Fran?
I took sleeping pills.
And what happened to you?
Tell me again -- what's my name?
Get more coffee.
That's right, Fran. And I'm a doctor.
Goodbye, Mr. Baxter.
Come on, Fran.
You fool -- you damn fool.
Why did you take sleeping pills?
Because I took some sleeping pills. But I'm all right now -- so let's go.
This is my brother-in-law, Karl Matuschka.
What's with you, Fran -- did you forget where you live?
Always happy to do something for our girls in uniform.
Well -- thank you.
What for? You haven't done anything -- it's him -- what a salesman -- always the last booth in the Chinese restaurant -- and the same pitch about divorcing his wife -- and in the end you wind up with egg foo yong on your face.
Will you excuse me?
And before me there was Miss Rossi in Auditing -- and after me there was Miss Koch in Disability -- and just before you there was Miss What's-Her-Name, on the twenty- fifth floor --
I don't know what you're talking about.
So you don't have to play innocent with me. He used to tell his wife that I was the branch manager from Seattle -- four years ago when we were having a little ring-a-ding- ding.
Yes, I know.
I beg your pardon? MISS OLSEN I'm Miss Olsen -- Mr. Sheldrake's secretary.
Hi. How's the branch manager from Kansas City?
I'd spell it out for you -- only I can't spell.
What are you talking about?
I don't know. I guess that's the way it crumbles -- cookie-wise.
That little punk -- after all I did for him! He said I couldn't bring anybody to his apartment -- especially not Miss Kubelik. What's he got against you, anyway?
Just walked out on me -- quit -- threw that big fat job right in my face.
He wouldn't give me the key to the apartment.
I didn't plan it this way, Fran -- actually, it's all Baxter's fault.
Ring out the old year, ring in the new. Ring-a-ding-ding.
I know it's a drag -- but you can't find a hotel room in town -- not on New Year's Eve.
I rented a car -- it's going to be here at one o'clock -- we're driving to Atlantic City.
All set for what?
Sorry it took me so long on the phone. But we're all set.
There you go again -- you know I didn't mean it that way, Fran. Just get well -- do what the nurse tells you -- I mean Baxter -- and I'll see you as soon as I can. Bye, Fran.
Of course I'm not here -- because the whole thing never happened -- I never took those pills -- I never loved you -- we never even met -- isn't that the way you want it?
Are you there, Fran?
Fran, why did you do it? It's so childish -- and it never solves anything -- I ought to be very angry with you, scaring me like that -- but let's forget the whole thing -- pretend it never happened -- what do you say, Fran? Fran --
Hello, Jeff. Yes, I'm all right.
It won't always be like this. I love you, Fran.
Don't forget to kill the lights. See you Monday.
You run along -- I want to fix my face.
You'll miss your train, Jeff.
Stop that, Fran.
A hundred dollars? I wouldn't call that cheap. And you must be paying somebody something for the use of the apartment --
Don't ever talk like that, Fran! Don't make yourself out to be cheap.
Okay. I just thought as long as it was paid for --
I have a present for you. I didn't quite know what to get you -- anyway it's a little awkward for me, shopping -- -- so here's a hundred dollars -- go out and buy yourself something.
Yeah, we better.
Oh. Our friend from the Chinese restaurant. Thanks, Fran. We better keep it here.
It's Christmas Eve, Fran -- let's not fight.
How could I be so stupid? You'd think I would have learned by now -- when you're in love with a married man, you shouldn't wear mascara.
Okay, okay, Fran. I deserve that. But just ask yourself -- why does a man run around with a lot of girls? Because he's unhappy at home -- because he's lonely, that's why -- all that was before you, Fran -- I've stopped running.
And just think -- right now there's some lucky girl in the building who's going to come after me --
Now, Fran --
I was never very good at history. Let me see -- there was Miss Olsen, and then there was Miss Rossi -- no, she came before -- it was Miss Koch who came after Miss Olsen --
Is that what's been bothering you -- Miss Olsen? That's ancient history.
Funny thing happened to me at the office party today -- I ran into your secretary -- Miss Olsen. You know -- ring-a-ding-ding? I laughed so much I like to died.
Well, that's more like it. At least you're speaking to me.
Yeah -- that's me. The Happy Idiot -- a million laughs.
Come on, Fran -- don't be like that. You just going to sit there and keep bawling? You won't talk to me, you won't tell me what's wrong -- Look, I know you think I'm stalling you. But when you've been married to a woman for twelve years, you don't just sit down at the breakfast table and say "Pass the sugar -- and I want a divorce." It's not that easy. Anyway, this is the wrong time. The kids are home from school -- my in- laws are visiting for the holidays -- I can't bring it up now. This isn't like you, Fran -- you were always such a good sport -- such fun to be with --
Where are we going, Jeff? Not back to that leaky boat --
I love you -- remember?
I have that date -- remember?
You know I do.
I'm sure. If you'll just tell me that you still love me --
Are you sure that's what you want?
Of course not. You had nothing to do with it.
Let's get something straight, Jeff -- I never asked you to leave your wife.
What do you think?
I saw my lawyer this morning -- I wanted his advice -- about the best way to handle it --
Okay. I'm sorry.
If you'll just listen to me for a minute --
I wasn't trying.
You're not being funny.
Just trust me, baby -- we'll work it out somehow --
That's enough, Fran.
They got it an a long playing record now - Music to String Her Along By. My wife doesn't understand me -- We haven't gotten along for years -- You're the best thing that ever happened to me --
You didn't really believe me, did you?
We didn't talk about it -- you did.
I mean -- about my getting a divorce.
We talked about a lot of things.
Remember what we talked about?
Do I. That leaky little boat you rented -- and me in a black negligee and a life preserver --
Fran -- remember that last weekend we had?
Not very -- but I'm going to be there anyway.
No. I have a date at eight-thirty.
Not here, Fran. Can't we go some place else?
You're not giving me a chance, Fran. I asked you to meet me because -- I have something to tell you. FRAN Go ahead -- tell me.
Sorry, Mr. Sheldrake -- I'm full up. You'll have to take the next elevator.
I want you back, Fran.
Why do you keep calling me, Jeff? What do you want from me?
How do you think I felt -- riding home on that seven-fourteen train?
For a while there, you try kidding yourself that you're going with an unmarried man. Then one day he keeps looking at his watch, and asks you if there's any lipstick showing, then rushes off to catch the seven-fourteen to White Plains. So you fix yourself a cup of instant coffee -- and you sit there by yourself -- and you think -- and it all begins to look so ugly --
I never said goodbye, Fran.
Look, Jeff -- we had two wonderful months this summer -- and that was it. Happens all the time -- the wife and kids go away to the country, and the boss has a fling with the secretary or the manicurist -- or the elevator girl. Comes September, the picnic is over -- goodbye. The kids go back to school, the boss goes back to the wife, and the girl -- They don't make these shrimp like they used to.
I don't believe you.
Let's not start on that again, Jeff -- please. I'm just beginning to get over it.
You don't know what it's like -- standing next to you in that elevator, day after day -- Good morning, Miss Kubelik -- Good night, Mr. Sheldrake -- I'm still crazy about you, Fran.
-- same sauce -- sweet and sour.
It's been hell.
Like old times. Same booth, same song --
I missed you, Fran.
Six weeks. But who's counting?
How long has it been -- a month?
Yes, I know. You want a lock to carry in your wallet?
You know I liked it better long.
It's on the way. I see you went ahead and cut your hair.
No, Jeff. I can't stay very long. Can I have a frozen daiquiri?
Let me take that.
Still afraid somebody may see us together?
That's fine. But what are we going to do about grandma and Uncle Herman and Aunt Sophie and my two nieces --
Why don't we send her to a movie -- like Ben-Hur?
She's home -- stuffing a turkey.
What's your mother doing this afternoon?
A little mixup in signals. Let's go.
Stay with it, Buddy-boy! Come on, Sylvia.
Bob WHO? -- all right, so we'll watch it at the apartment. Big deal. Baxter? It's okay for Thursday.
Thursday? That's The Untouchables -- with Bob Stack.
Okay, okay. Look, Sylvia -- instead of Friday - could we make it Thursday night?
Yes? Oh, hello -- sure I got home all right -- you owe me forty-five cents.
Certainly not. I'm a happily married man.
You mean you bring other girls up here?
Why do all you dames have to live in the Bronx?
Like hell you will. You'll buy me a cab.
All right -- I'll take you to the subway.
A hundred and seventy-ninth street -- the Bronx.
Where does she live?
I told you -- with my mother.
Where do you live?
Don't you ever stop talking?
You got to watch those things. Wives are getting smarter all the time. Take Mr. Bernheim -- in the Claims Department -- came home one night with lipstick on his shirt -- told his wife he had a shrimp cocktail for lunch -- so she took it out to the lab and had it analyzed -- so now she has the house in Great Neck and the children and the new Jaguar --
Some setup you got here. A real, honest-to-goodness love nest.
What's the difference? Some schnook that works in the office.
What guy? Whose apartment is this, anyway?
Sylvia -- sweetie -- it's not that -- but I promised the guy I'd be out of here by eight o'clock, positively.
First you can't wait to get me up here, and now -- rush, rush, rush! Makes a person feel cheap.
Please, Sylvia! It's a quarter to nine!
Yes, Mr. Sheldrake.
I'd appreciate it if you'd be out of here as soon as you can.
You let me go four years ago, Jeff. Only you were cruel enough to make me sit out there and watch the new models pass by.
You bet it won't. I'll arrange for you to get a month's severance pay -- That's right, Miss Olsen. I'm letting you go.
It won't happen again.
But I thought you could hold your tongue.
I'm sorry, Jeff. You know I could never hold my liquor --
Me? SHELDRAKE Thank you for giving that little pep talk to Miss Kubelik at the office party.
Lovely. You were a big help.
Did you have a nice Christmas?
Oh -- oh!
Propagate -- you know, multiply -- baby flies?
See if they'll what?
Maybe we should send up two flies -- and see if they'll propagate in orbit.
It's a thought.
Hey, Dad -- why don't we put a fly in the nose cone and see if we can bring it back alive?
I will -- I assure you that -- You got a fifty on that H-34 -- leave the ammo in boxes -- I'll get my men to bring the first drum with 'em --
I don't know what you're talking about -- Get fucked --
We can use some fifty caliber and a 16 too --
Two whole drums --
Men of all races -- nationalities --
Get out --
You make some of your closest friends in the army -- war has a way of bringing men together.
You can keep your fucking fuel --
One for all -- all for one --
No -- absolutely not --
Esprit de corps --
How far do you think you can push -- what kind of people do you think --
We have a lot of pride in our unit --
You're out of your skull --
That's what there is to talk about -- my man -- I take a good care of my men --
My men --
What's there to talk about -- this whole thing disgusts me.
Sit down -- we'll talk about it.
Wait -- wait -- don't get up tight -- what I meant was we'd need a whole drum for that --
We need all our fuel anyway.
Now just a second -- I'm doing you a favor, buddy -- what're you trying to pull?
I said I like all of them.
Good -- like I said, take your pick.
I like all of them --
Take your pick -- they all like you -- I can tell --
I'm not that fond of blondes -- maybe I like brunettes --
Look -- you know who that is, Captain -- you know what she's saying -- you'll never see stuff that good outside of a magazine for the rest of your life.
We need all our fuel.
We could use some fuel -- just a half drum -- just enough to get us out a here.
Look -- the girls could get killed -- we're not supposed to be this close combat, I mean real combat.
Well I mean like they also took our fuel -- We've been here two days.
Look -- we got in a little trouble -- they rudely took our helicopter for MedEvac work on this -- uh Operation Brute Force -- They just brought it back this morning.
Captain Willard -- go ahead.
Oh -- I see -- Well, girls, this is Captain -- eh --
Yeah, I caught your show at Hau Fat.
Look -- you know the girls -- Thta's Terri -- she was playmate of --
What's it matter? Get to the point.
Where are you headed?
You came in on that boat, didn't you?
What is this?
Moonby, 4th battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, Task Force. Ex-Corporal Moonby, deserted.
Moonby. Got any Winstons?
Who the hell are you?
I know, I know, it's all right. Come in this way. It's mined over there. This way. It's all right.
We've been attacked.
Who are you ?
Headquarters 11 Corps -- 405th A.S.A Battalion -- S-2 -- Com-Sec -- Intelligence -- Nha Trang.
I go up on missions. Listen Captain, buy me all the beer you want, but you better tell that asshole over there you're not going to find out anymore about me.
A year ? Waiter another beer.
A long time.
How long were you up there ?
I didn't know we had units up there in North Vietnam.
You know, I can remember once, getting back below the DMZ -- and the first Americans we ran into were a track squadron. I just couldn't believe how much water they had. We'd been chewing bamboo shoots for almost a week, and before that, for two weeks, we'd been drinking anything -- rain water, river shit, stuff right out of the paddies. And there were these guys standing by their trucks spilling water all over. I could've killed them. I swear to God I would have, too, if ...
Thirty -- sometimes fifty.
At least you always have enough water. How many gallons does each one of those damn things carry ?
Fat. That's real fat.
I was an FO for the 25th.
Let's talk about you.
That's quite an array of ribbons...
No -- I worked too far north for LRRP.
Were you Longe Range Recon --
What unit were you with ?
Yeah. Way north.
I'm sure it is, but I had hepatitis.
That's good gin.
My part. Beer, with ice and water.
Which part is that ?
Winning the war by yourself.
How about a drink ?
What did you put in all those ammo boxes?
Then went too far -- he sat there and starts mutilating the centerfold. Poking pins in her an' all that. Sergeant says, don't do her like that. You leave your shitty little hands off that girl. Gook Lieutenant says Fuck you in Vietnamese -- Sergeant says, don't do that again. You'll wish you hadn't. Then he stood up, flicked his iron to rock and roll and gave the little zero a long burst through the Playboy mag. Man, it blew him clean off the dock -- Hell, just the magazine was floatin' there all full of holes.
Yeah -- typical A.R.V.N.
He was working A.R.V.N. patrols and had one a them little cocky gook asshole Lieutenants -- anyhow, the Lieutenant took his new Playboy one day, sat on the end of the dock, and wouldn't give it back.
So what happened ?
Yeah -- you can really get hung up on them like the cat in the Delta.
It's really too much -- I mean I've collected every picture of her since she was Miss December.
You got to kill this sonuvabitch -- Lance and me, we don''t understand none of this -- Jesus, Captain -- I don't wanna die here -- Do it quick.
... he's an amazing officer.
I don't get it -- You said your mission was to kill him. Let's do it, an' get our asses outta here. This Kurtz is ruining the war; I mean, this don't look good for America !
Yeah, I know.
This is evil -- evil, Captain. We're all gonna die here.
Sure. Recoil... I feel the recoil of my rifle.
When you kill Cong, don't you feel something.
Not a thing.
He killed that guy without feeling anything.
Kurtz. I'm supposed to kill him, just like he said.
What are we doing here?
Captain -- they've been probed all this week -- Cong and NVA regulars. There's gonna be a big offense any time.
Looks that way.
Yeah, it is.
That's a light down there --
Still got a lot of that stuff from Nha Trang. But we're running low on the other.
And the grass?
Less than half -- sure is a mess down there.
How much is left?
There's some bad holes, man, and the cracks -- water's coming through the cracks. Food's shot to hell.
That we're dumber than we look.
Whatdoya think it thinks.
I know it sounds stupid, but I feel like the goddamn jungle's watching us.
I don't know.
What do you see?
I don't believe you --
Chef -- since you're such a fan of Miss December's I think you should be detailed with Lance and Clean to take the first drum up there.
I've arranged with those people we saw at Hau Fat to give us some 50 caliber in trade for a couple a drums of fuel --
They lined us all up in front of a hundred yards of prime rib -- magnificent meat, beautifully marbled.. Then they started throwing it in these big cauldrons, all of it -- boiling. I looked in, an' it was turning gray. I couldn't stand it. I went into radio school.
Cook school -- that did it.
What are you doing out here?
That's right, sir -- I come from New Orleans -- I was raised to be a sauciere.. a great sauciere. We specialize in sauces; my whole family. It's what we do. I was supposed to go to Paris and study at the Escoffier School; I was saving the money. They called me for my physical so I figured the Navy had better food.
A sauciere --
No, sir -- I'm a real chef, sir -- I'm a sauciere --
Chef -- is that 'cause you like mangoes an' stuff?
Call me what, sir?
Why they call you that?
Yes, sir --
I hate that -- Every time I hear that noise something terrible happens.
No -- most of 'em are still standing -- might've been disease.
Said I speak French like a Spanish cow.
What'd he say?
Thirty meters up, Lance; I saw the fucking flash.
Elevate Lance, in the tree. No, I saw another.
Mangoes? There as a fucking tiger in the woods -- I could've been eaten alive. I'm never going into that jungle again. I gotta remember never get out of the boat; never get outta the boat.
You forgot the mangoes, didn't you?
I'll go with you in a while -- judt hold tight awhile --
Can I go get those mangos now?
Looks pretty shallow.
Who knows? Right.
Which way? Right or left?
Two hours after the fog lifted, we moved slowly to a spot we thought was roughly a mile and a half below Kurtz's camp. We approached a long sand-bank stretching down the middle of the river.
If they have boats ... or canoes... they'd get lost in the fog. We can't move either -- we'll end up on the shore.
Will they attack?
What is it?
Yeah -- like keep out --
Whoever put'em there didn't do it to kill people -- They put 'em up as signs --
Thta's not Charlie's work --
Why -- Charlie put it there to kill --
While you were sleeping.
When'd you do it?
Rocks, sand -- those two men who deserted.
I am -- I'm Captain B.L. Willard. This is Chief Warrant Officer Phillips -- it's his boat. We were shot up bad downriver and need repairs and food -- we can pay you in gold.
They're not Cong.
In the middle of the jungle -- a goddamn light.
What the hell is it?
Get in there now or I'll bury you in this river.
This is my crew and my fucking boat, and I'm the responsible party.
Get in there !
This whole area is lousy with V.C. -- We don't stand a chance. Lemme turn around and we'll be in Hau Fat in six minutes.
Well, get in there.
I think this river wants to take us home fast. I'm practically goin' in reverse.
Can't be any worse than this. What do you think?
Who knows what's up there?
What about ducking into one of those tributaries till this river slows down?
We found some bodies -- let's get out a here.
Wow, you must a found the C.O., eh?
No shit -- hot damn --
You'll see soon enough -- get going, sailor --
What're you trying to say, Captain --
All right I got a little surprise for you --
Careful, Captain, they've been known to charge.
I'll go with him --
Yeah, Chef -- go ahead -- take Lance with you --
The draft of that river might be too shallow on the point.
We could go in tomorrow at dawn -- there's always off-shore wind in the morning.
First Air Cavalry. They're the ones gonna get us into the River.
Yeah -- fishing village -- helicopters over there. Hueys, lots of 'em.
Beats me -- the sun was too much for him, or the mud. Who knows ?
Shot himself. What for ?
'Bout six months ago I took a man up to Lo Mung Bridge. He was regular Army too. Shot himself in the head. I brought his body back down.
We're gonna have some help to get in the river. You know these waters, Chief ?
The Delta closes off to us about ten miles out of Hau Fat. We'll be able to pick up some supplies -- bit I think there are only two points we can draw enough water to get into the Nung River. It's all Charlie's turf from there on out.
All right with me, I used to drive a taxi.
Chief, try to keep out of where we're going -- Why we're goin' and what's gonna be the big surprise.
I met the P.B.R. crew; they were pretty much all kids, except for Phillips, the Chief -- Gunner's Mate Third Class L. Johnson -- Lance Johnson; Gunner's Mate Third Class J. Hicks -- The Chef -- Radio Operator Second Class T. Miller; they called him Mr. Clean.
I wonder if that was the same copter.
Jesus -- that guy's too damn much.
I saw that Colonel's Huey on the point --
Clear on starboard -- Where's Lance an' the Captain?
Forget that extra drum -- it's too damn hot.
He's in the L.B.J. -- didn't give him no medals or nothing --
They nail him for it bad ?
Yeah -- he really dug his Playboy mag, man -- I mean like he was there when it arrived -- He just knew.
I never heard about that.
One that went up for murder -- he was an Army Sergeant.
What cat ?
Too far inland.
Anybody see some smoke ?
Terminate with extreme prejudice.
Exactly -- you'll go up the Nung River in a Navy P.B.R. -- appear at Nu Mung Ba as if by accident, re-establish your acquintance with Colonel Kurtz, find out what's happened -- and why. Then terminate his command.
You want me to clean it up -- simple and quiet.
You can see, of course, the implications, if any of this -- even rumours leaked out.
Our Recon flight ?
Maybe it's not Kurtz. I don't believe he's capable of that. I just don't believe it.
What does that mean ?
Anyone got a cigarette.
You didn't like him.
Would he remember you ?
I only met Kurtz once.
Whose orders ?
If you're B.L. Willard, 4th Recon Group, we'd like you to come with us.
What do you want ?
No, it'd be spooky without the war -- give 'em back.
We ain't goin' down the river.
You got a chance in that boat -- by morning you could be five miles down the river.
Nobody comes in here.
What're you askin' me for -- put 'em in the first helicopter comes in tomorrow.
It's to everyone I really knew -- the first girl I screwed -- my brother -- best friend -- I wanted to tell 'em how much I enjoyed knowing 'em -- it's been a great twenty years. I gotta let 'em know.
What is it?
Do me a favor buddy, please.
Yeah, it still runs.
Hey, buddy, that boat still runs, eh?
Colonel Kurtz, he's dead.
They must have seen the fire.
How did they know?
He was the tragedy -- the tragedy of this war.
Who is he?
NVA regulars. They're coming again tonight. Tet -- their big -- assault.
What -- happened here.
Well, he's killing now.
He couldn't get through a sentence without all these big words; about why we kill.
But why ?
I don't know. He was a lame, that's all.
About what ?
This is years ago, before he joined Special Forces, I guess. We had an argument.
A lame ?
I thought he was a lame.
He's commanding the detachment at Nu Mung Ba.
I've worked with them on occasions and I saw the movie , sir.
You know much about about Special Forces; Green Berets, Captain ?
I am not presently disposed to discuss that, sir.
I believe on your last job you executed a tax collector in Kontum, is that right ?
This gentleman or myself ?
Okay, Willard, sit down.
Captain B.L. Willard, G-4 Headquarters, reporting as ordered, sir.
We endure, captain -- you can blow up the house and we will live in the cellar -- destroy that and we'll dig a hole in the jungle and sleep on it. Burn the forest and we'll hide in the swamp. all the while, we do but one thing -- clean the blood off our bayonets. Au revoir, Captain.
I guess this is whAt men of war do -- eh?
Two of my men deserted last night. It happens from time to time. I assume my daughter told you of our conditions.
What about an American named Kurtz?
When I was a boy, my father would take me there, to hunt. There are a few savages, but no man can live there, no white man.
Do you know that jungle?
Upriver? Why upriver? There is nothing there, only jungle.
I always thought the French came here to get the rubber.
But we civilized it. A place belongs to those who bring light to it, don't you agree.
The Vietnamese think it's theirs -- I guess the Americans do, too.
We will never 'evacuate', Captain -- this is our home. Indochina is ours; it has been so for a hundred and twenty-one years, there is something to say for that.
You'll get blown outta here some day.
Of course. I -- Once we make our repairs, we could send word, we could have you evacuated from here.
Attacks repulsed, as I was saying. This is only for this war, Captain. Viet Cong -- 54; North Vietnamese regular forces -- 15; South Vietnamese -- 28 -- regular forces and otherwise. Americain -- 6. Of course, they were, perhaps, mistakes, Captain.
No, I've seen those in Normandy. This is much better. My country -- my country could never originate this. Magnificent.
Looks like a two thousand pound to me. Yeah, a two thousand pound bomb.
It is very good -- there is no current -- It is very good. I have never seen one like it in all Indochina. I was in Paris when it arrived -- do you know what might have caused --
Of course, Captain -- an unfortunate necessity.
A habit of men of war, sir -- you understand.
A man of war is never bothered to aid an ally -- you will follow me, Captain.
We don't want to bother you any, we --
We took them from the dead. Now -- I assume you want to rest, to shower. We'll attend to your repairs after dinner.
Entirely unnecessary, Captain.
As I said, we can pay you in gold.
Fifty calibers, eh, Captain --
Yeah -- yeah, I can understand how you feel.
Yeah, I'm an artist, goddamit !
The wind --
Napalm, boy -- nothing else in the world smells like that --
You smell that. You smell that?
Sure -- fine --
They far enough?
I think we ought to wait for the tide to come in.
You think that section on the point is ridable, Lance?
I said it's a good swell -- hell of a good swell 'bout six feet. Let's get a look at it.
That's terrible -- we'll change that -- I'd like to see you work -- I've always liked your cutback; got a hell of a left turn, too.
I haven't surfed since I got here.
Where've you been riding, Lance?
You can cut out the sir, Lance -- I'm Bill kilgore -- I'm a goofy foot.
Thank you, sir.
It's an honor to meet you Lance. I've admired your nose-riding for years -- I like your cutback, too. I think you have the best cutback there is.
That's right, sir.
Lance Johnson? The surfer?
Gunner's Mate, Third Class -- L. Johnson, sir.
What's your name, sailor ?
You want'a surf, soldier?
It's still pretty hairy, sir.
Change -- get out there -- I want'a see if it's ridable -- change.
Wh -- what?
Six to eight feet.
How big it is?
It's hairy ,though. That's where we lost McDonnel -- they shot the hell out of us. It's Charlie's point.
Why the hell didn't you tell me about that place -- a good left. There aren't any good left slides in this whole, shitty country. It's all goddamn beach break.
It's really long left slide, breaks on the short side of the point -- catches a south swell.
What do you mean?
Mike, you know anything about the point at Vin Drip Drop?
Take her in low, Lieutenant.
Affirmative, Big Duke Six -- We're even got some rockets left.
Eagle Thrust Four -- Big Duke Six. Join me in sparaying some trees.
Big Duke Six to Baker Delta Four -- hold -- we're right over you.
This is Baker Delta Four -- Captain hit bad -- need dust-off. Receiving heavy automatic weapons fire from huts about thirty yards to our left.
Haven't got time, Hell's Angels -- lay it right up the tree line.
Hell's Angels Four to Big Duke Six -- we'll need green smoke -- suggest you have the FAC mark it.
Big Duke Six to Hell's Angels Four -- bring it in on along tree line and huts.
The kid can't ride sloppy waves.
It's gonna blow this place out. It's gonna ruin it ...
Yes, I know.
You know, some day this war's gonna end..
It'll get here, soldier.
I'm waiting for the fucking boat, Colonel.
The trees, eh...
Automatic weapons flashes along those trees -- probably eleven millimeter guns and AK-47's.
Sonuvabitch -- anybody hurt?
The enemy. Who else?
Yeah. Classical stuff -- scares the hell out of the slopes -- the boys love it.
We'll come in low out of the rising sun -- We'll put on the music about a mile out.
What about this point here?
You'll find enough Cong up there.
You talk like him. I don't mind taking casualties, Captain, but I like to keep my ratio ten to one in this unit -- ten Cong to one.
I met him.
And I don't intend to get some of them chewed up just to get your tub put in the mouth of the goddman Nung River. You say you don't know Kurtz?
So? I heard you had a good bunch of killers here.
I mean it's hairy -- they got some pretty heavy ordnance, boy -- I've lost a few recon ships in there now and again.
That village you're pointing at is kinda hairy.
He musta changed ! I got to get into the Nung River, here or here.
Don't you agree?
I met him.
Seems to me he got himself fragged. i heard some grunt rolled a grenade in his tent. Maybe a rumor. Helluva man -- remarkable officer. Walter Kurtz woulda been a General some day. General of the Army. Shit, Head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Did you knew Kurtz?
'Bout a year ago? Is Kurtz still alive?
When did you hear?
Nu Mung Ba. Last I heard, Walter Kurtz commanded a Green Beret detachment at Nu Mung Ba.
No. They put out two or three for every one I needed. When you get to the one you'll use, you just stake it out. If something feels wrong, you just pass it up. On one mission, I had to pass up three and ended up living on rats and chocolate bars.
Can you trust them?
Mercenaries -- agents, traitors -- they put out caches.
What'd you do for supplies?
Haiphong? Shit, you jump in ?
What's the furthest you been in?
I got bored in Saigon.
Why the hell you wanna go up to Nu Mung Ba for?
Just hold up a second, Captain -- I'll get to you soon enough -- We've got things to do here.
My orders are from Com-Sec Intel -- B.L. Willard, 4th Recon --
Yeah -- Na Trang told me to expect you -- we'll see what we can do. Just stay out of my way till this is done, Captain.
Captain B-L. Willard, sir -- 4th Recon Group -- I carry priority papers from Com-Sec Intelligence 11 Corp -- I believe you understand the nature of my mission.
I'm taking you back.
You had immense plans... immense plans...
My river... my people... my jungle... my ideas... my country... my wife... ... my death.
I was on threshold of great things.
I'm gonna get you out of here.
I had immense plans.
I'm taking you back. You can still live.
Going back - to the jungle to die.
What are you doing?
Go away -- hide yourself.
We'll exterminate the fuckers !
I'll tell you what makes sense ! Air strikes ! White Phosphorus ! Napalm ! We'll bomb the shit out of them if they don't do what we want.
You could never figure it because it doesn't make sense.
Stinks. I could never figure -- I could never figure how they can teach boys how to bomb villages with napalm -- and not let them write the word 'fuck' on their airplanes.
Oh Captain, that is so true.
I think think a lie stinks.
Because of all the things we do, the thing we do best -- is lie.
How did we get here?
You know what you're doing? You are interfering with my plans !
The truth that you were sent here to murder me, ans so far you haven't done it. And do you know why? Yes, you know why. Your mission makes about as much sense as those idiots who sent you on it. Asshole ! Schmuck ! How long does it take you to figure out that nobody knows what they're doing here. Except me.
Pain is easy to handle -- but nobility.. the nobility of a man is judged by how much Truth he can handle.
I can handle it.
How's the pain?
Still playing by the rules. You're a damn good kiler.
You can't have water after morphine.
No -- I don't want to sleep. I want to think. Water. Give me water.
No. My thinking is clear. But my soul has gone mad.
You've gone crazy.
I love it.
Yeah, I like it...
That's right, the little gook- pricks. But they are noble little gook-pricks, noble. Because they fight with their guts, like animals. And for an idea ! That's rich. We fight with ingenious machines and fire, like Gods, and for nothing. But I'll call in a major blotto airstrike tonight. We'll have ourselves a helluva airstrike tonight, a lightshow. How do you like The Doors': 'C'mon Baby Light My Fire...'
You're gonna get hit tonight, bad -- a whole regiment of NVA regulars.
I said get the fuck out ! I'm going to kill the little weirdo myself tomorrow. He's only stayed alive this long because he's a good orderly and medic. He knows how to use a hypodermic.
Yeah, I can see that. He's fuckin nuts --
Do you know me?
You know you're right.
What other reason could you have come? A Captain. Ranger. Paratrooper. Graduate of the Recondo School. Am I right about these things?
What do you mean, Colonel?
You came up my river -- in that small boat. So simple. I always thought the final justice would come from the sky, like we did. You are the final justice, aren't you?
No -- no, sir.
You were not coming here, to see me?
We were attacked -- down river. We need supplies and medical help.
Why did you come to ... my province.
Captain B.L. Willard reporting his presence, sir.
Colonel Kurtz, I guess.
Yes I was... He said his last words to me.
Were you with him, when...
His death was -- yes, he died as he lived.
Men looked up to him... He died as he lived...
Both of us...
I'll never get over it -- But I'll always remember him...
Yes, I know...
You were his friend... You must have been, if he had given you this... If he sent you to his home. He was the best this country had -- he was --
You knew him best.
Love him... Yes, it is true. That's the hard part for me... I knew him better than anyone ... I knew him best.
He was a remarkable man. It was impossible not to --
And you admired him?
You get to know each other pretty well out there.
Did you know him very well?
Bring your rifles, that's all. Take us to him.
No -- leave it --
The other one --
I wasn't looking.. I was running.
No shit... I think I shot the hell out of him.
What's this tiger shit?
It's a feeling you get in the jungle. When you get good, you can find a track and tell not only how many they are, but their morale, how far they're going, whether they're near their camp, the weapons they're carrying.
And you could just tell when the supplies were booby trapped?
Captain -- that was all true about the rats and chocolate and stuff?
He's a man who knows what he wants -- he does know what he wants.
A Yater spoon is hard to get -- especially here.
I don't think he'd of shot us on the beach but -- he'd of shot us if he saw me taking the board --
Any time -- us -- Americans.
You think he'd of shot us?
No -- I don't think so. But it'll be back. They were circling. It'll be back.
You hear it again?
He didn't look like he'd take that sitting down.
Maybe we better stay in under the trees till dark -- we got his Yater.
Yeah, Jesus Christ !
This one , Lance?
The Yater -- the clear one with the thin stringer.
Which one's the Colonel's?
No -- no, Captain.
Then let's get the hell out of here.
Want to say goodbye to the Colonel?
Are you finished surfing?
He can't kill us. We're on his side.
He'll kill us.
Just something I read in the Free Press.
Maybe he'll get inside the tube -- where -- where they can't see him.
Maybe he'll get tubed.
It's of strategic importance for keeping the highway into Bat Shan open -- the generals don't like to admit that Bat Shan is surrounded.
What is this bridge?
I'd just clear out as soon as I could if I were you, sir. They're gonna start working on the bridge with torches again. Charlie will start throwing it in hard --
We'll be needing some supplies and fuel -- do you know anybody who can give me a hand?
Now I can get out a here -- if I can find a way out.
You don't know how happy that makes me, sir.
Captain Willard -- we got these from Nha Thrang two days ago -- they expected you here then --
I'm not ever goin' to tell you to shut up again.
His name is...
Who are you?
And shut up.
Right on -- he's been waiting for --
We're going ashore. Tie her up -- and leave your guns up, Lance.
Those heads, yes. Well, the rebels...
Is that where he is? By the shrunken heads.
No, Colonel Kurtz couldn't be crazy -- if you heard him talk, just last week, you'd never think he was crazy.
Sounds like he's gone crazy.
I've asked myself that question. I said to myself, why didn't he shoot me? He didn't shoot me, because I had a stash like you wouldn't believe. I hid it in the jungle; the wealth of the Orient: Marijuana -- Hashish -- Opium -- cocaine -- uncut Heroin; the Gold of the Golden Triangle. and Acid -- I make Koolaid that makes purple Owsley come on like piss. Now I'm Kurtz' own Disciple -- I listen he talks. About everything ! Everything. I forgot there's such a thing as sleep. Everything. Of love, too.
Why didn't he shoot you?
But lemme tell you, he is the most dangerous thing in every way that I've come on so far. He wanted to shoot me. The first thing he said is, 'I'm going to shoot you because you are a deserter.' I said I didn't desert from your army, I deserted from my army. He said, 'I'm going to shoot you just the same.'
Kurtz. I tell you, that man has enlarged my mind.
So Kurtz is alive.
Pre-Australian, actually. But I'd dig goin' to California. I'm California dreamin'.
Simple. They don't want him to go.
Why did they attack us?
Oh, you don't talk to Colonel Kurtz. You listen to him. God, these are good. I kept these people off you, you know. It wasn't easy.
Where's Kurtz? I want to talk to him.
This boat's a mess.
Then Philippe will have to kill all of you.
What if I say no.
You may think what you wish, Captain, but I like you very much.
So that's it.
Whe you reach the boat you will find that half your fifty calibre stores -- a case of grenades, a mortar and two M-16's and a case of clips are being transfered to us by your order.
I'm afraid I won't have time -- I gotta --
The river is beautiful.
Are you warm, Captain?
But Captain, I mean -- cannibals.
Did you know -- deeper in the jungle, upriver -- there are savages?
Gaston would never tell me. It was asubject not to be spoken of, Captain.
That strange things.. terrible things have occured around this American, Kurtz.
What did you hear?
Kurtz. I know you've heard of him.
What's a big question?
I just follow my footsteps, one at a time, trying to answer the little questions and staying away from the big ones.
What will you do after the war?
No. Not really.
Do you miss your home, Captain? Have you someone there?
The war will still be here tomorrow.
I should be checking on the boat.
I'm sorry to hear that.
You must realize, Captain -- we have lost much here -- I, my husband. Gaston -- his wife and son.
We were going upriver when we got caught in a storm, ma'am.
May I ask where the Captain is going in his little boat?
No sir, I think -- this'll be a little bit different --
This -- Bob Hope or the like --
Big show in the parade grounds this noon -- some boss stuff --
What show ?
Well who the hell verifies that ?
Right now -- I am.
Well, you know I don't have the priority to do that, sir. It says here not to contact Com-Sec- Int. Who's your commanding officer ?
They're in order -- it's perfectly clean -- just check with ComSec- Intel like I said.
I don't know anything about these papers, sir.
Straight up the road -- a concrete bunker -- Beverly Hills -- where else you think he'd be?
Beverly Hills --
Where's your chief supply officer?
Son of a bitch, sir.
You came right to it, son of a bitch --
I don't know -- don't have any idea -- I'm just the night man --
Well , who's in command here?
Stepped on a booby trap, sir -- got blown all to hell --
Soldier -- where''s your C.O.?
Anyone got a card?
That's 27, sir.
So they can patch me up and put me in a cage? Forget it. Meyerling's right -- I'm a dinosaur. Greedy bastards like him, it's their turn with this land. Put me in the woods, let me live or die on my own.
Relax. I got a nervous man here with a magnum up my nose.
Remember that demon in the gut? Sometimes it's nothing more than wondering if the so-called civilized life has bred the balls and brains out of you. That's what you want out of this, isn't it?
What makes you so sure my boys won't be waiting for us?
First you save my ass, now you want to kill me. Make up your goddamn mind.
Used to see the natives eating roots when I was a kid in Nome.
Inside of three hours you'd be dragging my dead carcass.
You talk about ecology -- there it is.
Wait 'til I'm across!
See the blood? Pack of wolves took down a moose. Greedy, gut-ripping sons of bitches. I'd kill the last wolf on earth, right in front of the President of the U.S. Stinking, cowardly predator, the wolf.
Mind if I get some stuff from my kit?
Now, why don't you get around to saying what you want.
Hard to work up an interest in politics, way we live. You're the first people we've seen in two weeks.
You can pack out of here -- two, three days' hike along this river at most. Weather should hold this early in the season.
Your infrared camera?
You'll catch a chill by that dumb waiter shaft. Sit on the cot. Keep this pointed at him if I get preoccupied.
I'd sure like that favor you offered a while back.
There isn't one, unless Corbett's men get here before the plane does.
...I won't let a killer walk!
How? Nobody this far north monitors that frequency until avalanche season. Besides, I'm surprised a tough guy like you uses fancy electronics.
I just want this over with.
It'll be interesting, trying to build a fire without any wood.
I'll get you there all right.
Avalanche season is coming.
Back against the bars. Now.
A certain sonofabitch bastard -more-
Question is why they sat here when the storm moved in. Check their stuff while I sniff around.
Watch it with Meyerling. Man's as mean and corrupt as they get. Cut his mother's throat if it'd get him a couple votes.
I was making my rounds, saw your hangar wide open, plane getting rained on, so I closed it up.
Wasn't my intention to hurt Wilder. I'm telling you the truth. I liked the man. I only meant to get loose... to survive. Your cheechako boyfriend better understand that. Listen, I've got some money put away --
I don't want to talk any more.
You should know something.
That's why I left, moved to Washington. When I met Eric I was doing day shoots -- products and fashion, mostly. Pretty dull. Eric was teaching college, and then he got the job with Northland Oil. We wanted to stay together, so we talked them into funding some wilderness photography... and here I am.
What about you -- why come back? Classy girl like you seems more suited to the finer things.
I was gone, in September, laying traplines. She went to our cache for some meat. Got mauled by a bear. Tore open her skull. -more-
How did she..?
Had some good years. Met her in '66. She showed up one day in Coldfoot. No one knew her. One Sunday morning, she marched into a bar and announced she was available as a wife to the highest bidder. Didn't work out in three months, she'd return the money and leave, no hard feelings. My bid was eight thousand dollars. Beautiful girl.
Knew you had no native blood, even with your dark hair. Blue eyes give you away. My wife had blue eyes.
My dad was a Navy doctor.
Can't be. Too keen a sense of this place in your pictures.
How long have you been up north?
It's out by the pumping station, shot full of holes.
Really. I thought maybe that was his snowmobile outside. By the way -- your truck also 'on the fritz?'
Sam? We haven't seen him.
What about that hotheaded marshal, Sam Wilder? I heard he was in the middle of this mess.
Somewhere along the pipeline.
Where'd you say Eric is?
The radio's on the fritz.
What happened here?
-- Corbett's a killer.
-- Get this straight: I'm the District Supervisor. Whatever you do reflects on me. It wasn't my idea to bring you people up here, but I'm stuck with you. You are absolutely not to involve yourself in any local disputes. Whichever side you take, you alienate the other. Mr. Corbett is quite well-known in this region. People admire him --
I was hoping you had some news --
I have not, but I very much want to. What do you know about the trouble in Devil's Cauldron?
Have you talked to Eric?
My home is here. With you.
When you ran off, I thought you'd keep going 'til you were back home in Washington.
I've got an idea. We'll have to work fast.
Technology in the wilderness. Only problem is talking to you on your way to the landing strip.
Nothing broken. C'mon, we have to hurry.
Please, Anne Marie, you being here only complicates things.
So what's the problem?
Here. A transport plane is due at eleven. Once I put him on it, it's all over.
I'll tell you everything later.
What's going on?
You can't stay here. Go back to the Turtle. I'll meet you back there in a few hours.
Oh, Christ, sweetheart. Four days! I thought you were dead, or worse.
That's my line.
Be careful, okay?
Fairbanks is a three-hour flight. I'll be back by dinnertime.
Maybe you should drive him into Devil's Cauldron, let them decide what to do with him.
Wait a second.
High-tech in the wilderness. Gets me excited, too.
Not me. I'm equipped.
Prolonged darkness makes people crazy.
Winter. Two straight months of night -- we may never get out of bed. Which would suit me fine.
I thought I should check our emergency transmitters.
I still can't believe I'm being financed by an oil company. Especially when they get a look at these pictures. Technology in the wilderness; not too pretty. What's that?
Do I want to be with you permanently? Yes, I think I do. But be with what you do and the way you live? That I don't know. C'mon, Eric, until I met you, coming back to Alaska was totally
Look, why get into this again. As long as it's working, let's leave it alone. It's been nice so far. We're together --
It's exactly what you meant.
That's not what I meant.
You make it sound like a prison sentence.
I'll wear it for you. And I can wear it when we go home. We won't be here forever.
You were looking at it in the catalog. Don't know where you can wear it...
Oh, sweetheart. It's beautiful!
Can't help myself. Corbett's type always pisses me off. Oh, I found this at the post office. Had your name on it.
Going after killers isn't the same as chasing poachers, Eric.
He was sitting in a hot tub with a hooker.
Was there any trouble?
Sure did. He was one of the trappers we rousted from the Haul Road.
Did you catch Corbett?
No way can he get away with this. I'll be back by tonight.
Eric, leave it alone. It's not your business.
I'll go into town with you.
The little creep hates it that Eric actually does what the company hired him to do.
Best thing is, Meyerling has to chase around to find us.
I call it 'the Turtle,' as in carrying your home on your back.
I bet you haven't had lunch.
Bastards took off, though, didn't they?
Great idea -- pointing a lousy dart gun at some nut with a high-powered hunting rifle.
Be careful -- there're two of them.
He still might be around. I saw fresh tire tracks coming in.
What are you doing?
Be right back. I left my camcorder in the car.
He's coming around fine.
Leave my traps. We'll tag up, couple days.
Okay by me. You're the one likes these hot springs so much.
Go ahead. Take the jeep. I'll come to Cache with Bob when he gets here.
I know. Least you didn't shoot all of them.
Had no choice... ...Given the situation.
Relax. I just want to ask them how the hunting is.
Let's keep going. We're only an hour from Devil's Cauldron.
Leave it here.
You're wrong. Everything we do leaves its mark. You said it yourself -- there are hundred- year-old footprints in the tundra.
Look down there, tell me what any of this matters. Struggles of men get swallowed by the bigness. Soon there won't be a trace of our troubles... or us.
We'll get you to a hospital, soon as we get to Fairbanks.
Like I said, I'd still be up on that mountain, frozen solid, it wasn't for you.
How come you didn't let him shoot me?
Let's get out of here.
Wound's a through-and-through. Missed my liver, I think.
Can you walk?
The time has passed for men like them and me. I know it. But they're still fighting for survival, like cornered animals. That's why they'll kill you. -more-
Why offer a buyoff with your gunmen waiting outside?
Snow's to their advantage, kid. You can't see them, but soon as that plane comes, they'll sure as hell know where we're going. Wise up. Take me to the Yukon. I'll give you that money and guarantee you'll walk away.
You kill me, you sign your death warrant. And hers.
Answer and I'll shoot!
Maybe you can talk sense into your boyfriend.
No way they'll find you on a five-minute signal. And no way -more-
Lets us watch each other's backs over a wide area. Only thing messed me up this time was getting arrested in the baths. ELT was in my duffel bag, not around my neck where it should've been.
Emergency transmitter? What happened to signal mirrors or two-tone smoke fires?
You're damn lucky, glimpsing this country before it's ruined, gone for good. You saw wonders you'd only dreamed of. That alone makes you different than the sorry bastards back where you came from, because you have dreamt them.
I liked you better frozen. You didn't talk so much.
You were real resourceful out there. Got me thinking of this perimeter man, froze all his fingers one winter. So he hacked the tips off and sharpened the exposed bones. Gets along better than ever. Yeah, maybe I underestimated you.
I'm sure she's fine. Seemed like a clever kid.
You broke the radio, remember?
Talk to that good-looking girl of yours?
Hell, I still get a knot in my gut every season, wondering how much longer I can go on. No 'Home for Retired Trappers' that -more-
Maybe...maybe not. I'll tell you what scares me -- stumbling through life, like an ordinary jerk. That's why I want to work on the front lines, where what I do means something. Soon as I got here, I realized my job was bullshit. Oil company propaganda. I was ready to leave, then I thought screw it, I'll outsmart them, do the work anyway. I don't know anymore. Maybe I am fooling myself. That's what I'm afraid of most of all.
You don't know how true that is.
I already have.
Don't bet on it.
They think you're in Fairbanks. If not, they still won't find you before the plane comes tomorrow.
Cowardly bastard. I'm in handcuffs and I still scare the piss out of you.
Don't push me..!
I'm real sad you don't approve of me.
What do you know about people? You live like an animal! A savage goddamn throwback like you belongs out here, as far away from the rest of us as possible.
All you do is keep folks from working the land, living like they're meant to. You don't understand shit! Trappers, hunters -- we're part of the environment. Who's protecting us? I've seen plenty like you. So -more-
Yeah, it is fucked up -- but it's not too late to keep that from happening here.
Don't judge me. You're a joke, coming here from a fucked-up culture, telling us what to do!
You got a knack for seeing things the way you want to see them.
Killing wildlife not good enough anymore, so you go on to bigger and better things.
Told that's what our old man was. Planned on going to sea, me and Bob, 'til I read Jack London. Started trapping when I was ten. Mailed the furs to Sears. Eight bucks for a skunk, three for a muskrat. That was fine money.
Nome? I figure you'd be a whaler, coming from there.
Hate to disappoint you.
An appetite. Maybe you won't die after all.
I'm hungry. Go kill me some dinner.
Too bad. We'd be out of here in a few hours.
It was blown up with the plane.
You got one?
Emergency transmitter? All your gear is back at Wilder's.
Where's my ELT?
It's a spring day...
You don't feel cold?
What?! Fuck off. Save yourself.
How many do you see?
Told you I'm fine!
If that means freeze my balls off, no thanks. I'll be okay.
Stay awake! You want to go hypothermic?
You're not going to slow us down! Keep moving!
Have to get these wet things off.
You don't get it, do you?
There's a snowmobile. Inside a day we could be on the Yukon. I got money there. Remember that five thousand? Make it ten. Be smart. Take it and walk away.
Too bad we're heading west.
There's a cabin, maybe twenty miles south of here.
Yep. Sometimes they do, but usually they end up crazy or dead.
Folks come to Alaska for a real short list of reasons: Money. Adventure. Solitude. Those cover most everyone. But frontiers also draw another type of man. One with a demon in his gut. He comes to the edge of the world to face that demon, and lay it to rest.
You want to fool yourself about that bullshit job, fine. Damn shame you have to drag your girlfriend along. You think a woman like that will be happy making moose stew for a man -more-
I'm here to do my job.
Sure love to know where you fit in up here.
Sure. The People's Friend. Kiss your ass with precision if there's a vote in it.
You know Meyerling?
Where in hell Meyerling dig you up?
I'm still figuring: You're either real brave or real dumb.
It could blow over tomorrow, too.
Damn lucky this storm didn't blow down when we were on those baldheaded mountains. It continues, we better stay put.
Going to be a bit of a challenge with handcuffs on.
Forget it. It would take days.
Have to backtrack, find another way down.
Pushing it is flat wrong. All you prove is your ignorance about breaking trail.
We've got another two hours of daylight.
Let's camp. There's grayling under this ice. I'll snare some for dinner.
It wasn't my idea to crash the plane.
Most dangerous thing in the world: A regular Joe, in over his head. You trying to prove how tough you are for me, or for yourself?
I'm right behind you.
Be my guest.
I've been on ice like this when I was a kid, skating. Spread your weight, keep moving. Go on.
We get wet, we freeze to death in a couple hours.
We're not sitting here 'til November. There's a cargo plane coming to Devil's Cauldron in four days, and I'm putting you on it.
Ice is too thin -- you can see the water moving underneath.
-- Turn around.
Still quite a hike to Devil's Cauldron. Days. A long stretch to go without sleep, my friend. You can hide behind that pistol for now, but take your eyes off me long enough to sneeze --
Snow shelter. Okay. You dig. I'll have a little sit-down.
We'll stop here, dig out a snow shelter.
I don't plan on dying.
Why in hell you care enough about me to die taking me in?
Look, take these cuffs off. We need to work together.
That's right. You're not.
I'm not gonna carry you out of here.
You sound like the tourists. Know-it-alls who read about survival in a magazine. Fuck you. You won't make it off this mountain.
With light clothing and no supplies, this is nobody's territory.
I took the odds on getting down in one piece, and I made it. Now we're in my territory.
Next time you want to kill yourself, don't include me.
You got the belly to look me in the eye and pull the trigger?
Hunting and trapping was a damn fine life. Me and Mitchell, Bob and LeMalle, we were teams. I'd always go with Mitchell. Good man, Mitchell. I'd let Bob worry about goddamn LeMalle. We'd hire a plane in October. On the way to a dirt airstrip somewhere, we'd drop supplies. We'd land, tell the pilot to come back for us a few days before Christmas.
Sounds like professional jealousy.
That makes the flight more interesting.
I needed a pilot's license to take the job here, so I got one in six weeks.
Been driving long?
Smart? Sure. That's why I'm sitting in this plane and they're down there blowing me kisses.
How the hell were they smart enough to find us?
-- Killing is what you know. Pack some food while I prep for the flight. I'm sure not gonna let him go.
Surviving is what I know --
Send him down to her. There's money in my duffel bag, back at his cabin.
A daughter in Oregon.
Does he have people?
-- To take you to jail? It'll be my pleasure.
A lot to ask, dragging him away from such a good-looking girl --
Yeah. Maybe so.
Nice bluff the other day with the tranquilizer gun out your jeep window. See you again, maybe.
Ecology. Folks use that term for everything but what it means: who's eating who.
Six months. Ecological study for Northland Oil.
New to the country, kid?
No big deal. We just got off on the wrong foot. What's your name?
Kenai at the general store asked me to bring these. Didn't expect we'd already met.
Yep. Afraid you have me at a disadvantage.
I got your plate number, asshole. Maybe you feel like spending a few months in jail.
Can't be much of a crime, if all they got minding the area is a cocky kid.
You got two counts against you -- trapping out of season and poaching on restricted land.
I'm not too old to knock the snot out of you!
I don't want to hurt you, Sam.
Goddammit, I don't need this aggravation. I'll shoot you, Ben. Bank on it.
Good idea. Flying over mountains can give you some nasty surprises. Go too low, one of the clouds might have a big rock inside it.
You better get some sleep.
Don't try me. I'll kill you if it comes to it.
I'll get loose before that plane comes.
If that was all, fine. But carving him up, stranding the others, that's too fucking much. Is everything that walks, crawls, flies or swims fair game to you?
Sam, listen -- I shot to defend my man. Other guy drew first.
Sam, give Dixie here fifty bucks out of my kit, will you?
I got it from here. Thanks.
Christ if I shouldn't know better than to step in soft earth. I've seen footprints in the tundra a hundred years old.
You left a footprint at the Sportsmen's camp. Only pretty sight there, Ben, 'cause the two men you didn't shoot and mutilate died of exposure.
All this for laying traps on private land?
But I would.
You wouldn't shoot anyone...
No, I better stay at my post.
Can we buy the Marshal some dinner?
I'm living proof of that sad fact.
Relax. One more day without drink won't kill you. Right, Sam?
Just passing through.
Ben...boys. Yeah, real slow, and I'd like to keep it that way.
Hullo, Sam. Slow day?
If you have to ask, you wouldn't understand.
-- Forget it. And try not to bleed on my throw rugs. Why do this?
-- Here's a hundred dollars. And if you or anyone else will back me up on this --
Pretty clever: If the trappers got that signal beacon and get here in time, Sam's is the first place they'll look. They may figure you're waiting for an airplane, so you can't stay in the shack by the airstrip. Last place they'd expect you is on the far side of town. I can't afford any trouble --
Will you rent me a cabin, or not?
What's the problem with Sam Wilder's place?
I need to rent a cabin.
You're an outsider, Mr. Desmond. Step aside; stay out of it.
Neff, you know better than this...
-- Sam Wilder was my cousin. He's why I came to Alaska. All his letters, saying what a paradise it is. But me ending up dead won't do Sam a lick of good.
You don't care enough about Sam to --
I'm real sorry. In a while, you're gone from this country. But we live here. No one wants to mix it up with those hombres.
There'll be three, four men at the most. I have some backup, nothing will happen.
Bastards killed Sam, you think they won't kill the rest of us?
What are you talking about?
Look, Mr. Desmond, I didn't count on it turning this ugly.
I'm the one should be sorry... Goddamn Kenai, always out for a score. I never should've let him go over there.
Yeah. Sorry I barked at you last night.
I was just on my way to your ladyfriend's, but I guess she found you.
Just stay out of my face until I'm gone!
Corbett ruined my two-way. Go to my place on the Haul Road, tell Anne Marie I'm okay and to sit tight.
Jiminy Christmas. What do you want from me?
-- I'm putting him on the plane to Fairbanks, eleven tomorrow.
If Corbett's men find out --
Back at my place... he, uh, broke his leg.
-- Here?! Where's Wilder?
Look, Neff, I've got Ben Corbett with me --
Not a damn thing. What's going on? Mr. Meyerling was here, all steamed up, looking for you.
Have you heard anything from the girl staying with me, Anne Marie?
You don't mind me saying, Mr. Desmond, you look like hell.
Snowplow, generator, TV dish... hell, we get the goddamn Playboy Channel! Here, this is for you.
Mr. Desmond! Arthur Neff. Area rep for the Federal Assistance Plan. Tell the boys in DC to keep those goodies coming.
This isn't your concern. It's over, here and now.
Nobody wants any more killings; we all agree to that, correct? That's good. Now, Eric, you're gonna hand your prisoner over to us.
Some day these people'll wake up, and you'll be the first one they'll run out of here.
This miserable wilderness is a state of the union. Policy's made here the same way as in the civilized world: at the ballot box. That's the beauty of it -- these icebox cowboys are living a century too late. Get them on your side, it's like buying Manhattan for beads. With a handful of votes you control the greatest frontier since white men stumbled onto the New World.
I should release Corbett because you want some votes?
You can't see past your lousy little assignment, sniffing around the pipeline. The few voters there are in this district look up to Corbett, and I'm not about to alienate them.
What does this matter to you?
I could've sat tight for the transport, 'til Bob came poking around.
That's what we should've done in the first place.
...You give us a ride in the Cessna you got hangared at the pumping station, we'll be in Fairbanks in a few hours.
Any idea who could've done it?
I'm too old for this shit.
We'll go with you.
Damn. Likely that's an SOS. Have to pass on that lunch.
Hey, Sam, look over there. Black and white smoke.
Mobile Arctic Dwelling -- MAD.
What'd you say they call these spaceships?
-- We appreciate the company. Anne Marie's getting cabin fever already.
Bet you're right. But I didn't come by to wangle a meal --
Aw, Jesus. Told you this was trouble. What about you, big shot? Do something. Who's side are you on, anyway?
Dead. Trappers killed him.
Dixie's waiting at the infirmary. She'll put a splint on that injured leg.
He saw you and Corbett come in...
Stay out of it.
Corbett coming here stinks of trouble. We should make the best of it before it turns around and bites us in the ass.
You're out of your greedy goddamn mind.
Bet I could make some money turning Ben Corbett in. Maybe more for lettin' him loose. I was up in my cache. Saw the Northland man come talk to you.
Why the smirk?
I just as soon he stay gone. Fool could've got us all killed, arresting Ben Corbett here in town.
Wilder's missing church services; you believe it?
Doesn't matter. We know where they're going. C'mon.
Kenai's PA -- but how the fuck she seein' us?
Ease off. We do this my way.
You hear me? Ben?
I'm right fuckin' here with you.
Look, we pull Ben's ass out of the fire, I'll get you a whole damn crate of Snickers bars.
Quit fucking around. Get in.
Thought that door was open last night...
Not in the right hands it ain't.
What you gonna do with it? Large bore's for shit on small game.
I ain't gonna leave a seven- hundred-dollar Remington behind.
Cool out. I ain't about to get blasted.
Maybe they went back to Devil's Cauldron.
It's a three-hour flight. They shoulda got there yesterday.
Get the fuck out of here.
I called the cops in Fairbanks, see when Ben is standing trial. They don't know shit about Ben or Wilder!
It's a long shot.
There you go. Wilder's always chummy with the fuckin' Bambi-lovers.
Goddamn! Viking Bob! Mitchell's inside, boring bastard...
LeMalle. We got a problem. Where's Mitchell?
They'll have to come right past us.
There's what they're waiting on!
Where's the kid?
Musta wanted to keep him from the bears. If Ben killed him, he sure as hell wouldn't hang him up like this.
It's Sam Wilder!
We were just talking about him.
Okay, let's backtrack, try to pick up his trail. You know the kid out on the pipeline that Wilder's buddies with?
That plane might've been to throw us off the track. Remember the bait-and-switch Wilder pulled with the Eskimo and his truck?
Naah, Wilder knows we got friends in town.
Hang on... Remember that Cessna we saw at the pumping station on the Haul Road? Belongs to the guy they got patrolling the pipeline.
Closest planes for hire are here in Cache.
Meaning he'll need a plane.
Musta never got a chance to -more-
...Ben never sent a signal.
So shoot him. Won't have to feed him that way --
This man's friends ain't gonna look favorably on his incarceration.
Sit your suspect out in the cold. He'll keep.
Next plane's not coming 'til next Monday.
On a good day I couldn't spare a crosswalk guard. But now, no way. Folks're batshit with the weather turning sour. Bring him in yourself.
This is Sam Wilder, Marshal in Devil's Cauldron. Had some killings here. I got a suspect; be real nice if someone came and took him off my hands.
Everybody wants that, dear -- it doesn't exit... Sorry... didn't mean to interrupt.
Stop it!! Why can't I have a normal boyfriend??? Why? Get out of here. Just a regular boyfriend who doesn't go nuts on me...
I love you.
Call me as soon as you're settled.
Well, maybe he has nice friends.
Stop treating this like I'm going away with a man. He's just going to say those crappy, sick, complaining, angry things to me. I hate this, Mom -- I hate this. He's a freak show -- the worst person I ever met.
How was it talking to him?
I want us to go out.
What is it you want? What?
Leave me be! Why are you doing this? Why are you picking at my sores... What is it that you want?... You want what? What's with you? I hope getting me thinking of everything that's wrong when all I want is to not do this has some purpose. What is it, Mom? No kidding.
Spencer's doing fine. So what are you saying, that you're frustr...
... moving in the wrong direction... Away from when I even remembered what it was like to have a man to... anything... hold fucking -- sorry -- hands with, for Christ's sake. I was feeling like really bad that Dr. Bettes is married. Which is probably why I make poor Spencer hug me more than he wants to... Like the poor kid doesn't have enough problems. He has to make up for his mom not getting any. Oh, boy. Who needs these thoughts?
I don't know... It's very strange not feeling that stupid panic thing inside you all the time. Without that you just start thinking about yourself -- and what does that ever get anybody. Today, on the bus there was this adorable couple and I felt myself giving them a dirty look -- I had no idea everything was...
I don't need one 'cause I know what's really going on here. I have to finish this letter or I'll go nuts. This can't be right -- con- science.
Spencer is okay. You'd better start finding something else to do with your free time. If you can't feel good about this break and step out a little... You ought to get Mr. Udall to send you over a psychiatrist.
I still don't feel safe leaving Spencer with someone. How do you spell it again?
C-o-n-s-c-i-e-n-c-e. I got Sean from the bakery to baby-sit so let's go out.
I'm on the last page. How do you spell conscience?
You're not still writing that thank-you note?
Come on. Why fight when we know how it will come out. This isn't like stocking or a string of pearls. You don't send this one back.
It lets a crazy man into our lives.
Do you really want to go back to the runt doctors in Emergency who keep telling us they can't help?
There is a seriously goofy man behind this. You are not allowed to block out that fact.
You met the gift.
I didn't know you had a secret admire.
Do you love me?
Stay out of this... Doctor?
He's good... And I'm an expert on doctors.
No, I didn't. So why are you h...
Hi... Did you know there are doctors who come to your house?
Don't be silly. How bad?
They're considerable. But Mr. Udall wants to be billed.
Doc!!! So listen, you gotta let me know about the additional costs -- one way or the other we'll...
Water... Nobody told you it might be a good idea to remove the carpeting and drapes in Spencer's room?
Do you want some juice or coffee or two female slaves?
His home number.
Me. My home number is on this card.
Once the tests come back, is there someone I can reach in your office for the results?
No. Actually, I think that's their technical name.
Fucking H.M.O. bastard piece of shit... I'm sorry... forgive me.
It's amazing these things weren't done.
No. I asked. They said it's not covered under my plan. And it's not necessary anyway.
They haven't done the standard scratch test. Where they make small injections into the skin?
Have they done skin testing for allergies?
Emergency room only.
Only in the emergency room or when he was well.
Have they done blood tests on him?
How long has he been having problems?
I'm a waitress.
My wife is Melvin Udall's publisher. She says I have to take great care of this guy because you're urgently needed back at work. What work do you do?
Tell me how bad it is. I let him go out last night when it was so cool without an overshirt -- just and underone with just the straps and I know better... and I let him talk me into it. He was whining and... you don't need this. Give me a second to catch hold.
He's in the bathroom... He's fine.
Not your name... what are you telling me your name for!! Where is he?
Mrs. Connelly. I'm Martin Bettes ... Dr. Bettes.
What? Please? Now? Tell me?!
I'm gonna grab you. I didn't mean it to be a question. I'm gonna grab you.
No! It's certainly not. No -- I don't think so. No.
Just let me talk. I'm the only one on the face of the earth who realizes that you're the greatest woman on earth. I'm the only one who appreciates how amazing you are in every single thing you do -- in every single thought you have... in how you are with Spencer -- Spence... ... in how you say what you mean and how you almost always mean something that's all about being straight and good...
You know what? I...
Hey, I've got a great compliment for you.
Melvin, even though it may seem that way now -- you don't know me all that well... I'm not the answer for you.
I'm feeling... I've been feeling better.
If you need an excuse, there's a bakery on the corner. There's a shot it'll open soon -- that way we're not screwy -- we're just two people who like warm rolls.
See. It's four in the morning. A walk sounds a little screwy to me, if you don't mind.
It feels a little confined here. Let's take a walk.
Maybe we could live without the wise cracks.
Oh, come on in and try not to ruin everything by being you.
It relaxes me... I'd feel better just sitting on the curb in front of your house than anyplace else I can think of or imagine.
I had to see you...
Is it a secret what you're doing here?
What a break...
I wasn't asleep!!
What are you doing here?
Were you asleep?
... 'Cause of being woken up, and it would make my job impossible. So then I wouldn't even try.
'Cause if you were asleep -- I'm sorry. And you could be grouchy.
What do you want?
Were you asleep?
What do you want, Melvin?
I should've danced with you.
Okay to say something now?
You don't have to answer everything I say. Just listen to me. Okay?
See. There's an example. I don't know whether you're being cute or crazy now.
The two might go together.
I don't know whether I'm being sensible or hard on you.
That seems like a good choice.
I can trust my brain.
How you doing?
I don't care what you did for me. I don't think I want to know you anymore -- all you do is make me feel badly about myself. You have my number.
I'll take you... why not?
I'll take a bus.
Here are the keys to my apartment. I'm going to park you in my place while I take Carol home.
It's your car but I don't want to hear it. If that means anything.
This one has a special meaning.
What do you mean? You said you liked it.
I don't want to hear that music right now.
Do it then. Get the dog picked up. I can't believe you let it stay there.
Let me see... Ahh, gorgeous!
Nothing like no choice to make you feel at home.
To hell with sex.
Sorry, didn't realize she was right there. Did you have sex with her?
It was a mistake.
I'll never forget you said it.
I don't know why I brought you -- that idea occurred to me is all... It came out first... Hey, you kiss him -- me... He says he loves you. You two hit it off. But you don't want to... fine... Forget what I said about sex with Simon. It was a mistake.
That's why you brought me? Look at me! Is that really why you brought me... Like I'm a what and I owe you what?!
It's one idea...
Sex with Simon?
There are lots of reason... I had a thought that if you had sex with Simon it might...
If you ask me... I'll say, "yes."
Tell me even if you're scared. Tell me why you wanted me here. It's okay.
Well, ah... that's a personal question.
That wasn't payment. When you first came into breakfast, when I saw you -- I thought you were handsome... Then, of course, you spoke... So now that your soft li'l underbelly is all exposed. Tell me, why did you bring me?
You don't owe me that.
Here's the trouble with never.
Have you ever let a romantic moment make you do something you know is stupid?
Takes months to know... They work little by little. Talking like this is exhausting.
So how are you doing with those pills? Well, I hopahopahopa.
Then I've really overshot here 'cause I was aiming at just enough to keep you from walking out.
That's maybe the best compliment of my life.
I don't quite get how that's a compliment for me.
Don't be pessimistic. It's not your style. Okay... Here I goes... Clearly a mistake. I have this -- what? Ailment... And my doctor -- a shrink... who I used to see all the time... he says 50 or 60 percent of the time a pill can really help. I hate pills. Very dangerous things, pills. "Hate," I am using the word "hate" about pills. My compliment is that when you came to my house that time and told me how you'd never -- well, you were there, you know... The next morning I started taking these pills.
I am so afraid you're about to say something awful...
One baked -- one fries.
Two crab dinners and pitcher of cold beer. Baked or fries?
Can we order first?
And mean it...
That's not compliment, Melvin... That's just trying to sound smart so I feel stupid... A compliment is something nice about somebody else... Now or never.
That monominute somebody gets that you need them they threaten to go away. Never fails.
Melvin, pay me a compliment... I need one and quick... You have no idea how much what you said just hurt my feelings.
No. Wait. What? Why? I didn't mean it. You gotta sit down. You can still give me the dirty look... just sit down and give it to me.
No... ... I don't get this place. They make me buy an outfit but they let you wear a house dress. I don't get it.
I've been thinking about that since you brought it up before.
You wanna dance?
You promised a nice place -- can't you just... You have these dry cleaned all the time, don't you?
No... I'm not wearing that -- and just in case you were going to ask I'm not going to let you inject me with plaque either.
Just him and that's it. Okay, you can answer -- we've worked it out.
Stop asking everyone.
My son was outside playing soccer. I never saw him playing ball. Come on, you guys -- take me out for a good time... Take me out dancing.
Yes... sure. I'll take the sofa.
No answer... Maybe we should just drive there tomorrow. Can I have that one?
That's not true. Some of us have great stories... pretty stories that take place at lakes with boats and friends and noodle salad. Just not anybody in this car. But lots of people -- that's their story -- good times and noodle salad... and that's what makes it hard. Not that you had it bad but being that pissed that so many had it good.
Go ahead, Simon. Your father walked in on you and was yelling and... really, come on.
... my father didn't leave his room for 11 years -- he hit my hand with a yardstick if I made a mistake on the piano.
You like sad stories -- you want mine.
Hey -- you let him...
Anybody here who's interested in what Melvin has to say raise their hands.
I'm sure, Simon, they did something real off for you to feel this way... But when it comes to your partners -- or your kid -- things will always be off for you unless you set it straight. Maybe this thing happened to you just to give you that chance.
Let me go in back. You look like you need all the room you can manage.
I -- uh, I... Well, there is no place cards or anything.
It's okay. No problem. Where should we sit?
I was going to do that for you.
Hello... Oh, my God, who did that to you?
Thanks for being on time... Carol, the waitress, this is Simon, the fag.
Oh. Okay, then -- Melvin. Good night.
Whether crabs are in season there now...
Okay, gotcha. What did you think I was going to ask?
Oh. We might. Yes. We can. Let's.
There's... there's no need to bring anything dressy... or... I mean -- I didn't know if we'd be eating at any restaurant that have dress codes.
Just south to Baltimore, Maryland. So I know what you're going to ask next. That you might ask -- I'm not certain.
Melvin... I'd like to know exactly where we are going.
Are you still coming?
Is there another way to see it?
Are you saying accepting your help obligates me!?
Write me a note and ain't she sweet. I need a hand and where'd she go.
Funny, I thought it was a strong point.
What's that got to do with it?
Melvin, I'd rather not.
Bettes tells me he's doing fine.
You take off when you have to.
I can't. I work.
The stiff one eye?
I can't do this alone. I'm afraid he'll pull the stiff one eye on me. I need you to chaperon. Separate everything but cars. You said you liked convertibles. Now I'm on the hook.
I want you to go on this trip.
Oh, I'm sorry... Didn't I say, "what?" I thought I said, "what?"... What?
Now I want you to do something for me.
Nice of you... thank you.
I also wrote one part... I wrote I'm sorry... I was talking about I was sorry when I got mad at you when you came over and you told my son that he ought to answer back so I wrote that. I was sorry for busting you on that... and I'm sorry for busting in on you that night... when I said I was never... I was sorry and I'm sorry every time your food was cold and that you had to wait two seconds for a coffee filler...
Well, part of what I said in this entire history of my life which you won't read is that somehow you've done more for my mother, my son and me, than anyone else ever has... And that makes you the most important, surprising, generous person I've ever met and that you be in our daily prayers forever.
No... no thank you notes.
What you did changed my life.
Hey, what I did for you is working out?
Yes. I'm going to give my queer neighbor a lift to Baltimore.
So. Anything else?
I want your life for a minute where my big problem is someone offers me a free convertible so I can get out of this city.
He wants me to take his car and his client to Baltimore.
Getting loud, getting loud.
A thank-you note for what you did for me.
So you'll be at work?
Just how grateful I am.
Okay!!!! Anything else?!?
I'm not kidding.
I'm not going to sleep with you. I will never, ever sleep with you. Never. Not ever.
What needs clearing up?
I don't think I can wait until tomorrow. This needs clearing up.
You waiting for me to say something? What sort of thing do you want? Look, I'll be at the restaurant tomorrow.
But you do have some idea how strange that sounds??? I'm worried that you did this because...
To get you back at work so you can wait on me.
Why did yo do this for me?
Note. Put it in the note.
That's not why I'm here... ... though you have no idea what it's like to have a real conversation with a doctor about Spencer...
I was working... can't you just drop me a thank-you note?
The doctors had your billing address. I'm sorry about the hour.
Carol the waitress?
No!!! Stay away from me!
Yeah, yeah... any chance you'll get back to work today?
How ya doing?
Sorry, honey... I'll be right there.
I hear you talk when I'm waiting!!!
How do you know about my mother?
What about your mother?
My son is sick, okay?
Yes, I do, as a matter of fact... and to prove it I have not gotten personal and you have. Why aren't you at work? You're not sick -- you don't look sick... just very tired and bitter.
What subject? That I wasn't there to take crap from you and bring you eggs? Do you have any control over how creepy you allow yourself to get?
I am trying to keep emotions out of this. Even though this is an important issue to me and I have strong feelings about the subject.
Are you totally gone? This is my private home...
This is not a sexist thing. If you were a waiter I would still be here saying...
What are you doing here?
I'm hungry. You've upset my whole day. I haven't eaten.
You all set here?
Last week I was playing the piano for him and he likes it, and so I decide I'm going to make a little joke...
What's with the dark?
Okay, pal... I accept the compliment, but go easy -- my knees start a-knocking when you turn on the charm full blast.
Otherwise, you're not ugly.
And if I had to guess by your eyes. I'd say you were kind. So, so much for eyes. But as long as you bring up age... how old are you?
If I had to guess by your eyes, I'd say you were fifty.
How old are you?
You know he's a little dog. Next time, if Bryan's not here, you can bring him in.
It's okay -- I'll sit here.
Well, not until now -- for Christ's sake.
You're not worried that someone might take him?
Suckered in. Set up. Pushed around.
So what are you doing with a dog?
An ear infection can send us to the emergency room -- maybe five, six times a month where I get whatever nine-year-old they just made a doctor. Nice chatting with you.
He's gotta fight to breathe. His asthma can just shoot off the charts -- he's allergic to dust and this is New York and his immune system bails on him when there's trouble so an ear infection... Is this bothering you?
What do you care?
What's wrong with your son, anyway?
Just give yourself a little pep talk. "Must try other people's clean silverware as part of the fun of dining out."
I see the help -- judgement call.
What's with the plastic picnic ware? Why not try ours... afraid it isn't clean?
Clippity clop -- clippity clop -- she has to pretend she doesn't hear me. Listening to the story from the upset friend... now she drops off the cappuccino and smiles at the putzette who doesn't even say, "Thank you." No, the putzette wanted the whipped cream so back she goes and now she has to pass him again and it's getting tougher to make believe.
We're all gonna die soon. I will. You will. It sure sounds like your son will.
You're gonna die soon with that diet, you know that?
The table's fine if it had some cholesterol on it. Two sausages, six bacon strips, fries, three eggs over easy and coffee.
It's not your table. It's the place's table. Behave. This once, you can sit at someone else's station.
I've got Jews at my table.
I know. He's just the best.
Will you please take it?
Don't want to. I love you.
I love you... Let him take you home.
You think you're kidding.
One night with me!
I'll take care of myself --
But what about...
I just love her. How're you doing?
We held each other. It was better than sex. What I need he gave me great.
All right, cut me a break.
That long neck -- the line of you... you're porcelain... your back goes on forever. You're classic... you're why cavemen chiseled on walls...
Thanks. But I just want to take a bath and...
But you're beautiful... your skin glows.
Stop staring. Do a vase.
I haven't even been thinking about sketching for weeks.
No... Absolutely not. I'm shyer than you think. I give the wrong impression sometimes and...
I've got to sketch you.
Can you believe in our little mix you're the good roommate.
How to die, mostly.
Why? What have you been thinking about?
Well, considering everything's horrible and tomorrow I have to face my parents... Don't ask me ... I'm sick of my own complaints ... got to get me a new set of thoughts.
I'm sorry... are you okay?
I'm going to take a big bath and order a big meal.
I don't think so. You need help with the pants?
Can you not be violent?
Our room. I don't want to see him and he's not going to come knocking on your door.
Was this supposed to be your room?
What a nice compliment.
No... Nervous. It would be very rough, Carol, if you weren't along.
I don't blame you... This is a monumental first day out... You sad or anything?
No, let me pull over so I can pay full attention.
Yes. I really would.
Do you want to know what happened with my parents?
I'm sorry... I can't hear you. I can't turn my head all the way yet... tell her we can't hear her.
I don't know the last time I've been out of the city... Hey, my arms are tanning. I used to tan great. We gotta stop soon so'se I can check on Spencer.
Hey, elephant girl, call her or something... just let her do my one meal here. I'll pay whatever. I'll wait. Do it!!!
What the heck do you mean?
What are you trying to do to me?
I'm filling in. We don't know if she's coming back. She might have to get a job closer to home.
No. No. Get Carol.
What the heck are those for?
Shhhhhhh. I don't have this mountain of available time... I got to get to my restaurant on time. Do you know how hard it is for me to be here?
I also regrew my beard... but you're not interested in changes in me... so it's like I always told you... when it comes to people you...
Two years ago...
You changed the room around...
I can help you if you take the responsibility to keep regular app --
You said you could help me -- what was that -- a tease?
There's not going to be a debate. You must leave.
Explain to me how you can diagnose someone as "obsessive compulsive disorder" and then act like I have any choice in barging in.
If you want to see me you will not do this. You will make an appointment...
So am I, Frank.
I'm sorry that I'm not taking you.
Yes. Your dog is fine, Simon.
You are very certain my dog is okay... because you have no idea...
No, I promise... not a chance. I own this guy. There was no one else. I'm on the move too much. Trust me.
How could you do that? He'll hurt him.
Your neighbor -- Udall -- is taking care of him.
So, what's new anyway? How's Verdell?
Jackie, will you hand me the mirror?
Hey, hey... Haaa... bad but temporary. The nurses say it's much better than you looked three weeks ago... the hand will come back... they're sure...
Won't worry about it. You go ahead.
He's genuinely upsetting, isn't he?
Last word freak.
If there's some mental health foundation that raises money to help people like you be sure to let me know.
Okay... so I'll see you tomorrow. Let's not drag this out. We don't enjoy another that much.
Like the wind but I'm not doing it.
Take my car -- a convertible. Do you drive?
Think white and get serious.
Yes. And tomorrow? I have a high maintenance selling painter coming through... So I'm out. Can you take him?
Yeah. If his parents are alive they've got to help -- those are the rules. Good.
It's not only financial assistance. What he's got to do is go to Baltimore tomorrow and ask his parents for money. It's not going to happen on the phone.
Concerned. I'm just the hall monitor here.
Yeah, but it's all about Simon now... you helped with the dog... And now there are other things. I'm just as concerned as you are about Simon.
About a dog.
Hey -- you called me... I...
"What?" Look at you... You sense a mark.
It looks like it really went over. You're sure making the rounds. Simon says you brought him soup last night. I hope he doesn't write you a note.
Really nice. Shouldn't that be a good thing... telling someone, 'no thanks required.'
I did. And his stomach is out of whack. So they need him for a couple of days.
Sure -- take him to the vet.
It's not my dog and this Simon seems to have enough on his mind -- but he did throw up twice and his spark is off.
Okay by me.
No. He wants him back. He'll be by tomorrow.
It's been five weeks... another few won't kill me.
Simon's home. I was sort of hoping you could keep the dog until he's had a chance to think and adjust...
He's a pain in the ass.
How's Verdell doing?
You don't want to mess with me today. I'll figure something else out tomorrow.
Hey, where are you going? You can't do this. I can't take a dog. Nobody's ever been in here before.
Thanks for looking after him.
I'm not saying nothing to you.
You're taking him... yes... you're taking him -- this will clear the books. One night. You want to say "no" to me? Try... because I've never felt as nuts as I do right this second. I almost want you to try saying "no."
Shhhh now. I like Simon. I like him enough to batter you unrecognizable if you verbally abuse him or so much as touch his dog again. Meanwhile, I'll try and think how you can make this up to him. I hate doing this. I'm an art dealer. Have a nice day. Party!
Police! Police! Fucking crooked police... doughnut-munching morons help me! Assault and battery and you're black.
You may think you can intimidate the whole world with your attitude, but I grew up in Hell. My grandmother had more attitude. You don't intimidate me.
Hope you find him. I love that dog.
Definitely a package you don't want to open or touch.
What I know is that as long as you keep your work zipped up around me, I don't give a fuck what or where you shove your show. Are we being neighbors for now?
Simon, you've got to get dressed.
No, it's all right. I'll just watch.
Shall I get her for you?
Actually, I don't think so.
They require a tie and jacket but we have some available.
Yes, we do... And I can give you a tie and jacket.
Hi. You have hard shells, right?
I'll be able to keep my apartment and studio, won't I?... Just tell me.
Frank loves you. You know that... but I've spoken to him and he feels that -- -- as a businessman, with limited resources...
Well, I can't reach them.
The medical bill are 61 thousand now. I've spoken to your parents and they didn't hang up or anything -- they just said they would feel strange calling you.
See, he's right. I need the cards. Simon, you're broke.
Frank's idea. He thought I should have notes so I did this right... maintained focus, didn't get emotional and tried not to terrify you.
Sorry. What are those cards?
You little stinker. He's given you everything.
No. Please, don't force him.
I haven't looked at myself yet. I figured I could tell from your reaction.
How you doing, great one?
Where'd they teach you to talk like this -- some Panama City "Sailor want to hump-hump bar"? Or was today getaway day and your last shot at his whiskey. Sell crazy some place else -- we're all stocked up here.
You're a wonderful man. Two o'clock is a good time. Here's the key in case he's asleep. Open the curtains for him, so he sees God's beautiful work and knows that even things like this happen for the best.
Not just today -- Uh, could you do it -- until, until he gets back on his feet?
No! Would there be any way for you to be willing to walk his dog for him?
Is he dead yet?
We will if we can and if we can't, we'll come back and ask you again and again.
Oh, is he dead?
Just move on. No one here killed him.
How come you're pretending to do cop work -- 'cause I don't think you could find your ass if you were spotted the hole.
Okay. So you call 911 and don't leave your name -- even a dumb geezer should know that emergency automatically pulls up your name. How come you make a mistake like that?
I forgot to lock the door.
Okay. Thanks a lot. Here I go.
Then get in your jammies and I'll read you a story... I think you've got a chance. The only real enemy you have is her ability to think logically -- the best thing you have going for you is your willingness to humiliate yourself if it gives you one chance in whatever -- so go catch her off- guard.
Hey... I'm charged here. But she might kill me for showing up this late.
You know who you want. I'll take your seat any day. So do something... don't sleep on it... go over there. I don't think anybody should ever sleep on anything -- it's not always good to let things calm down.
But you know where you're lucky?
Well, if that's true then I'm really in trouble.
Picking on me won't help.
It was better than this... Look, you, I'm very intelligent. If you're going to give me advice or conversation or consolation or hope, you got to be better than you're doing. If you can't be at least momentarily interesting than shut the hell up. I'm drowning and you're describing water.
Did you like it that much?
I don't know... Let me sleep on it and figure it out. Because I'm stuck! Can't go back to what I had... She's evicted me from my life.
Okay... you tell me why -- "You're dying here."
No... and you're supposed to be sensitive and sharp.
Because... ... you love her?
I'm a great guy -- "extraordinary"... ... and she doesn't want contact with me. I'm dying here.
What did she say?
You going to come talk to me or not?
Look, we both want the dog -- and...
Sorry, didn't know you were awake. I just thought Verdell shouldn't get too used to sleeping in here 'cause then...
I love you.
They did a nice job... Cozy, huh?
Thank you, Melvin. You overwhelm me.
What are you talking about?
I think you gotta camp it here...
Look, I've got to get a hold of Frank and see where I'm hanging my hat 'cause...
I told you to go on in.
Does it matter?
Another place where?
Good-bye. Well, your luck is holding. They sublet your place. You're homeless. Frank's got a line on another place you can use for now.
I know. I'm a little bit nervous. Suddenly everything seems so easy. Carol, a load has been lifted.
What are you talking about? You got real problems.
I'm going back with you.
... Now he's going to want to stay. And they'll want to take a ride to the lake or whatever. So it's a good five hours back. It gives us a chance to take it easy and...
... so Mom. Truly no grudges -- truly. A little odd that you didn't come to see me when you heard I was hurt, but the important thing I want you to know is your son is happy. I'm working again. I'll make do -- I don't want a thing. Wouldn't take it if it was offered. I'll drop you a note from wherever I land and then it's up to you. I hope we patch things up but know that if we don't, I wish you both the very best... I can't hear you. You heard me, though, right? Good -- take good care. 'Bye.
I get why you're angry. It's no snap to explain why I was like that, but let's not try to do it on the run...
I give you that one... Nice packing.
You consider your life easy.
Wouldn't your lie be a lot easier if you were not...
Do you ever get an erection for a woman?
Not at all, huh?!... Let's go to the hotel. And if you're lucky tomorrow Dad will give you another wad of sweaty money.
Not it at all, really.
This stuff is pointless.
Well, I always painted. Always. And my mother always encouraged it. She was sort of fabulous about it actually... and she used to... I was too young to think there was anything at all wrong with it... and she was very natural. She used to pose nude for me... and I thought or assumed my father was aware of it.
Never a break. Never.
That's very thoughtful.
Let's do the small talk in the car. Load up.
I, uh... I was... attacked. Walked in on people robbing me. I was hospitalized. I almost died.
But sick -- nauseous -- where everything looks distorted and everything inside just aches -- when you can barely get up the will to complain.
I haven't been sleeping. I haven't been clear or felt like myself. I'm in trouble. Some son of a bitch is burning my bridges behind my back... But the tiredness -- boy... Not just sleepy.
Got any easier questions?
I have never been so tired in my life. Okay, if I sit here?
I brought you Chinese soup.
Stupid dog. I don't get it.
Would you leave now, please?
Yo, yo, yo...
Come on, sweetheart...
Now we'll both call him.
Oh, my gosh.
I carry bacon in my pocket.
Don't piss on a gift, tough guy. You want to know why the dog prefers me... it's not affection. It's a trick.
Well, I'll do one thing for you that might cheer you up.
No need to stop being a lady... quit worrying -- you'll be back on your knees in no time.
Rot in hell, Melvin.
Nellie, you're a disgrace to depression.
Nothing worse than having to feel this way in front of you?
Where are all your queer party friends?
Please, just leave.
That cleaning woman doesn't...
It smells like shit in here?
If you'll excuse me I'm not feeling so well.
Thank you for walking him.
Maybe I'll bring him some food by.
I called. I never touched you. I didn't leave my name or nothing.
Thank you. Verdell... sweetheart? By the way, thanks for saving me.
Could you take it just a little easy, Mr. Udall?
That's some face they left hanging on you. You look like...
Yes. It's not a subtle point you're making.
Well, I work all the time. So never, never again interrupt me. Okay? I mean, never. Not 30 years from now... not if there's fire. Not even if you hear a thud from inside my home and a week later there's a smell from in there that can only come from a decaying body and you have to hold a hanky against your face because the stench is so thick you think you're going to faint even then don't come knocking or, if it's election night and you're excited and want to celebrate because some fudge-packer you dated has been elected the first queer President of the United States... and he's going to put you up in Camp David and you just want to share the moment with someone... don't knock ... not on this door. Not for anything. Got me. Sweetheart?
No... actually, I even shut the phone off and put a little piece of cardboard in the ringer so no one can just buzz me from d...
Do you like to be interrupt when you are danging around in your little garden?
No, I didn't.
Do you realize that I work at him?
Did you... do something to him?
Well, that's a load off.
I found Verdell, Mr. Udall.
Maybe this can wait.
'Love was... '
Mr. Udall, I'd like to talk to you please.
Franks shows my work, Mr. Udall. I think you know that.
How're you doing?
Frank Sachs -- Melvin Udall.
Like thick molasses, with one of those wide noses perfect for smelling trouble and prison food...
Which color was that?
I got it. You're talking about your dog. I thought that was the name of the colored man I've been seeing in the hall.
My dog... you know... I mean my little dog with the adorable face... Don't you know what my dog looks like?
What's he look like?
Mr. Udall... excuse me. Hey there! Have you seen Verdell?
I think of a man and take away reason and accountability.
How do you write women so well?
Aw come on, just a couple of questions -- how hard is that?
Oh God, this is like a nightmare.
That somebody out there knows what it's like to be... in here.
What's it mean?
I can't resist. You usually move through here so quickly and I have so many questions I want to ask you. You have no idea what your work means to me.
No. No. No. Hey, that painting in there... I just want to tell you...
Why are you doing this?
Just a second -- he has to go.
Wait -- I want to see the painting.
Yes... well, there's one more stage -- trying to figure out if it's any good.
So you're practically finished, huh?
No... Okay. What I do is watch and wait for, um... You ever watch someone who doesn't know you're watching... an old woman on a bus, kids going to school and you see this flash come over them and you know immediately that it has nothing to do with anything external -- that it's in respond to a private thought they just had? They are just sort of realer and more alive. And when you notice it so are you. If you look at someone long enough, you discover their humanity.
The fact that you haven't said, "hold it" means I haven't done it right... is that correct? I haven't done it right?
Nothing. I just watch till something strikes me. Do anything you think of -- try different thing. Until I say, "hold that pose." Then just try and comfortably hold it.
How about that pose? This is not fun... Give me some direction.
Exactly what is your previous experience?
Game over, bitch!
Now I'll tell you something. It wouldn't fucking matter if I offered you one hundred million dollars. You'd still be thinking the same thing, that you're going to take me. And here I am, sitting through this, knowing it's bullshit, looking at you and the only thing going on in my mind, the only thing I can think is that, in just a few minutes I'm going to take you.
I'll tell you this. After Cleveland, I thought I was lucky to be alive. But now, here, I just realized that you were the lucky one.
Why don't you tell me.
You don't know a fucking thing about me. You don't have the slightest fucking clue.
You would be.
You think I would be an idiot to pass up five million dollars.
What I just said, no assassin would say. What I've said, only a mark would say.
You understand what's going on? It makes sense, right?
Did you see how I did that? Magic wasn't it?
Shit. That sure is a lot of money.
Five million dollars?
All right, Bain. Pay attention, because this is where everything changes.
If you think you can take me, quit fucking bullshitting and try it.
Yeah you are and you hate it. You hate the fact that your hand is shaking and mine isn't. That you're sweating your balls off and I'm not. You've got fear and hate in your belly like battery acid, all because of me.
I ain't scared of you.
Listen to me, Bain. Two days ago, you contacted your contractor, who told you that they knew when and where I was going to pick up the transferred money from MicroCell. You don't know how they got the information. It bothered you, but you didn't care. How do I know this? Because ten years ago, I was sitting in that chair, as scared shitless as you are now.
It means that I'm going to tell you things, even though I already know that you're not going to listen to a God damned thing I say.
What does that fucking mean?
I knew the same way in ten years you're going to know.
How'd you know? Just tell me that. How'd you fucking know?
I know you're going to jump.
No, no. Wait. You don't want me to jump. You're going to jump. I'm stuck back here until it's too late. Wham -- over!
There's a sand barricade up ahead; I'm going to ram this cab into it. The cab has an airbag, odds are good I'll survive. But with this steel casing and bullet proof glass, odds for you are not so good.
What are you doing?
What? What's okay?
We go around once.
So what happens now?
Who the fuck cares about Cleveland. Cleveland blows. What kind of marks have they got here? Greasy mobster, teamster or some hand job politician. I want the money marks. I want the marks that you get.
After those cops, you'll never be able to come back to Cleveland.
Robert Bain, driving me! Jesus fucking Christ!
Yeah, that's it. And he's like a fucking genius. They said he shaded you over and over. And in the end, he aced you again. Shaded and faded. They say he's living on some Greek island, but I say that's fucking bullshit. I say you're the best and that you planted his ass. Am I right?
Oh! I got a question. Jesus, this has been driving me crazy for years -- shit, listen to me. I sound like some fucking fanboy. I'm sorry, but I just got to ask you. Everybody talks about how you left the Agency and got into the business and then how you went after the Russian, Nicholai Talinkov --
We both know what you were doing.
You don't have to tell me that. It's just, I know my bid was low, but was it too low? I mean, did I seem like an amateur, like I didn't know what I was doing?
Sounds like chickenshit --
It's just a shoot-out then. Sixty- forty, at best. Not my odds.
Hey. What I don't get was why didn't you take the shot inside the restaurant? I mean you had me, a free shot. That's what I would have done.
Two years. Two long fucking years.
How long have you been freelance?
Bain. Michael Bain.
Holy shit! Robert Rath wants to know my name.
What's your name? We both know it's not Nicholai.
Boy, that's fucking genius. You're a fucking genius. Then you're just sitting there, bullshitting with me. Man, no way I coulda done that!
No fucking way.
Sit back. Put your seatbelt on.
The hell I can't. It's my cab. I don't like you. So, get the hell out!
You can't --
Get out. You think I'm running you up? Get out.
What are you doing?
Just do your job.
What? You think I'm running you up?
Yeah well, you just blew your tip, pal.
You're right. Talking too much again.
That was Peterson back there. That goes to the expressway for the airport.
What are you doing?
I'd love to sit in that jury. Send that S.O.B. right to the chair.
But they caught the guy. I heard it all. Sounded like he just went berserk, fucking loco. Shooting anybody. Drugs, probably.
Yeah, it's terrible. I mean Valli, and I don't care what office he's running for, the guy's a crook. He probably had it coming, but all the other people. Real sad.
Didn't you here all them sirens? It's been all over the radio. Some guy shot Leevio Valli, and a bunch of bystanders, in the Trattoria Roma.
Why? What happened?
I know just what you mean. I'm pretty beat myself.
Look, I'm real tired and I'm not interested in fucking chit-chat.
Not too good at small talk, eh?
What is this?
Where you from?
No. No I'm not.
So you're from around here?
Yeah. Yeah, I'm a waiter.
No. No problem. The airport, right?
Is there a problem?
Do you want Rath or not?
How in the fuck do you know that?
I don't give a fuck what you are. I asked you --
Such language in front of a lady.
They money will be standard bank transfer. We believe we will know where and when.
No. No. No. I don't believe it.
You're too late.
I'm on the scent.
Take us there.
I'm sorry, sir. A year ago there was a fire in the old Hotel Paraiso. This is the new Hotel Paraiso.
No, the other Hotel Paraiso, in the city. Near the Plaza del Sol.
Yes. This is the Hotel Paraiso.
No, no. I said the Hotel Paraiso.
Good afternoon. We have reservations at the Hotel Paraiso in Costa Blanca.
Hi. Up ahead my boss is in that black limo. We're not sure which hotel we're at, so could you just follow them?
Paid in full.
Freelancer. A woman. Surveillance specialist.
Who is the mark?
Tomorrow. The buyer is Japanese. His retirement a condition of the bonus.
I know. It was a joke.
I don't know what the fuck you are.
The fucking contract! How in the fuck did he know.
How did he know?
A new player. He's using the name Nicholai.
The contract was stolen.
I'm worried about you, Robert.
Send the file. I'll have the estimate tonight.
I don't believe you.
Sick. The flu.
Where have you been, Robert?
We have an M.O... Her system is protected by her 'pussy virus.'
You think this is a fucking joke?
Is this how it went, Nick?
He stole another contract.
I give a fuck? I'm done! I quit! Do you fucking hear me! I'm fucking gone!
It cost us.
I bet you fucking know!
I know what happened.
Fuck you, fuck Cleveland, and fuck your contracts --
I have been sitting on a contract from Cleveland for six days because of you.
Oh, God. I see it!
He's coming, Electra! Get out now!
Last night --
I'm taking off my mike.
Wait until he is on the stairs.
I waited another four minutes.
I know. That's why I'm attracted to you. I mean, you make me nervous. You're intimidating. Maybe it's my curiosity/self-preservation thing, but all I can really think about right now is kissing you.
I'm not normal.
That doesn't sound normal.
Maybe you should see a psychiatrist.
When I gave you my gun and you almost shot me.
When did it start?
Were you attracted to me right away?
I'm not sure that I care anymore.
Is this becoming complicated?
After her, I realized that to survive I had to live without... It's dangerous to let things become complicated.
Was she the only one?
No. I tried to stop it. I couldn't.
Did you --
She was taken.
What happened to her?
Someone like me, like you. A pro.
Who was she?
It happened to you before?
It can be.
Attraction is a complication?
I didn't want to complicate the situation.
Is that why you didn't want to talk about women before?
Is it a physical thing, or a mental thing?
Why? I don't know.
Are you attracted to me?
Am I attractive?
I'm sure you will.
Can I ask you something?
I'm playing white, remember. You can't tell me which pieces to move. It doesn't work that way.
Because, I'll take it.
That's a ridiculous move.
What are you doing?
He believed it all went back to one night, when as a little girl. I watched my parents have this big fight, really big. I thought my mother was going to kill my father. Then they went into their room and made up. And I watched them make love through the keyhole.
Did he explain how this happened?
He told me that my curiosity became unnaturally entangled with my sense of self-preservation.
Apparently this doctor was unable to cure you.
So I could watch the girl that lived under me.
And you were drilling these holes...?
I don't know. When I was in college, I was forced to go to a psychiatrist because I was caught drilling holes in my dorm room floor.
I know. It makes me crazy.
It's always been that way. The world has always functioned on two levels.
Isn't it interesting though? I mean, look at us, in this room. Or yesterday, when we were walking in the plaza market. I mean, we look like just another couple. But what are we? Doesn't it seem so crazy?
She is married, but not to him. Another man, much older. She has four kids. The young guy works for her. And I think she likes kinky sex.
I heard them last night and it made me want to know something about them. I wanted to, so I did.
Why in the hell would you take that chance?
Nobody ever sees me.
Jesus, if someone had --
It was no big deal. I saw them leave, I went in.
I went into their room this afternoon.
How do you know they're not?
When I first saw them I thought they were married.
I didn't notice them.
Did you think they were newlyweds?
They're worth less points.
I hate bishops. They're useless. I like knights.
Why did you trade a bishop for a knight?
Five million dollars will buy a lot of Rolaids.
I think I got one today.
Do you have ulcers?
Yes. Here I am again.
Ten years later, here you are again.
No. I went back to the hotel. And waited.
You didn't take it.
Then he offered me one million dollars to walk away, to quit the business.
Was that it?
He said I couldn't win. That no one wins at this game.
What did he say?
He wanted what I want now; to get out of the business. To disappear to some empty Greek island.
What did he want?
I waited until I was insane and then I walked into the bank. He was sitting there, very calm, waiting for me.
Ten years ago.
It wasn't planned or premeditated. I swear. Things happened beyond my control. I understood; I saw where they were leading and I suppose that it just made sense.
I don't believe that.
I don't know. It just happened. I was here ten years ago, I'm here now. That's it.
What is it? I don't like this at all. What is going on here?
You killed him here? In this city, outside that bank?
Ten years ago, I sat there in that same hotel window, sweat pouring off of me waiting --
You can't know for sure, how can you? I mean, you're not him.
I told you, he will.
Except, if he doesn't come out of the hotel.
I've been thinking about it for a long time.
Sounds pretty well figured out.
Five million apiece. You get on your plane, I get on mine.
We split the money?
I'll be walking out of the bank, unarmed. You'll have the gun and I'll drive the car.
You'll have the money. How do I know that you won't --
If things go well, I don't have to. You'll already be in a rented car waiting for me.
And with the mikes, I'll tell you when he leaves the hotel and you'll tell me when he leaves the bank.
That means you won't have a gun.
He can't. The bank has an expensive security system; metal detectors and X-ray machines.
What? What if he brings it with him?
He won't be able to. He'll have to go inside. He'll have to see with his own eyes, whether or not I am there. If the bank closes, he won't know for sure. He'll come. I'm sure. And when he does you'll go into the hotel, go upstairs and take the gun.
Why won't he wait until the bank closes?
The sun will be low, almost dark, the air cool and the bank will almost be closed. 5:45. 5:50. He will put the rifle down, he will get up and he will walk across the plaza to the bank.
It will take the entire day, but he will begin to doubt himself. He will begin to believe that he missed me, that somehow I slipped by and am already on a plane to Europe.
Aiiee. More waiting? I don't know if I like this plan.
Then, we wait.
Okay. Then what?
You'll be here. A restaurant. A public place far enough away that he won't notice you, but with a good enough view you'll be able to see him when he moves inside.
No. It would be amateur. A risk. He'll wait for the prime shot, that he knows is coming. Once I'm inside, he'll move to the hotel. He'll go up the back, too much traffic in the front.
But he won't shoot you right then?
He will be hidden somewhere out here, probably somewhere low, in the crowd. He'll stay there until he sees me enter the bank.
This is the bank. This is the hotel. In the morning I will enter the bank.
It's too late now. Okay? We'll have to deal with these.
They saw you coming a mile away. If I had known we'd be using --
I paid a lot for these.
Cheap as shit.
Transmits and receives.
You should. It's very important, that the body release the energy that builds in it.
I've always wanted to learn something like that.
Not that I would know, but you look like you're really good at it.
Where did you learn it?
The beach? It was nice.
How was the beach?
You should knock.
Book. Sunglasses. Great.
He won't be looking for you. Just be careful. Buy a book. Keep your sunglasses on.
I know what you are thinking. I'm not going to disappear, okay? I'm not going anywhere, just down there, to that beautiful beach. I got to get out of this room, just for a little while.
Why don't you bring it out here? It's beautiful out here.
I don't know... But I'm sure he's not sleeping.
What do you think he's doing?
In Costa Blanca.
Do you think he's here?
You can have the bed. The chair is fine for me.
I'm kind of tired. I think I'd like to try and get some sleep.
That sounds nice.
I don't know... maybe I'll live on a boat, sail to all the places I've never been.
What will you do if this works, if we get the money?
What happens if you do?
Not even a stalemate?
But you've never figured out a way to win.
Do you think about the game?
Work. The things I need to get done.
Oh. What do you think about?
It helps me to focus. It centers me, helps me think.
I wasn't expecting this. I need to think.
That's where he'll be.
You were there?
I don't know.
I've never been to the Gulf of Mexico. Is it as nice as they say?
Hey, where are you?
Where is it?
Do you have a passport?
You said you didn't trust it.
It. Tell it. For all I know it could be a machine.
No. Something honest.
Is that what you wanted to hear? Something cold blooded... something remorseless...
Does that mean it didn't bother you?
This is fiction! Don't you see that? This is another reality. And the people that come into the world to play this game -- nobody forces them! They're here, they know the rules, the stakes, the risks! Do you understand what I am saying? No one is innocent -- including you!
Did it ever bother James Bond?
Did it ever bother you?
They become complicated... messy.
No. Just the first one.
Are they usually like that?
It was... mechanical. Very precise. It was exactly like the training drill except for the adrenaline.
Because I want to know.
My first take?
Tell me about the first time.
The only thing different about the private sector is that a General Contractor takes less of a percentage than the government, so you make more money. Then once you make the transition, you realize you were never working for the government; it was always the private sector, the vested interests and it's the same vested interests that continue to buy your plane tickets.
Then you went freelance?
Yes. It didn't matter much to them as long as I disappeared.
They tried to kill you?
The same reason everyone does. You hear your name on C-SPAN and you realize you're a skeleton in someone's closet and they're coming to bury you.
Why did you leave the Agency?
Because you are a women.
Women... I don't... I don't want to talk about women.
Women? No... not really.
The exotic women.
They are very good at what they do. It's very seductive. The training, the weapons, the travel --
Of course. I was going to be James Bond.
But you knew what they were training you for?
No, they didn't.
They didn't give you a choice, did they?
No. I graduated from George Washington University. Then I entered the Agency training program.
You went from high school to the Agency?
I was just different.
Some people said that. I never thought so.
You were like a boy genius?
Languages. I was already fluent in nine languages.
Jesus -- why?
They recruited me when I was in high school.
How old were you?
More or less.
The same way everyone does; the government, the Agency.
How did you get into the business?
Yes. As soon as you get into this business, all you can think about is getting to the top. That's all there is. Until then, there is nothing. You are nothing.
Where you wanted to be?
Because that's how it works. That's what it's about. He was the best. He was on top.
I killed him.
He was killed.
He was... taken.
Why didn't you finish this game?
We played with a code using <u>The New</u> <u>York Times</u> obituaries. Over three years we played twelve matches. I never won.
It looks like white's game.
He was Russian. Nicholai Tachlinkov. A legend in the business when I was just starting. I admired him. When I heard he loved chess I became obsessed with the game.
Better than playing with yourself.
It's not the same, is it?
This is crazy. I can't trust you. You can't trust me. How can we possibly help each other?
Because I'm done.
If Bain hadn't taken the contract on me, would you have?
What do you want to know?
What I'm trying to say is that -- I'm not sure I can do this, help you, unless I know more about you.
No. Just Electra.
As in daughter of Agamemnon?
Rath. Robert Rath.
Listen -- I don't even know your name.
He will know everything about you. Everything. I know, because I've done it. Once you've been inside a mark's home, you're in their head. If you're any good, you'll find the mark in a week, and Bain is good because I was the best and I couldn't take him.
Oh Jesus Jesus...
Right now, as we sit here, he is tearing through your apartment. He is digging through your drawers, emptying your closets. He will take your telephone and address books, your appointment books. If you keep a diary, he is reading it. He'll go into the kitchen and find out what kind of food you eat, liquor you drink, cigarettes you smoke. In the bathroom he will find any prescription drugs you take and where you get them filled. If you have video tape or recordings he will watch and listen to all of them.
No. It's the truth. I know what you are. Like me, like Bain, you're a ghost, you're not part of the real world. You don't have a social security number. You don't pay taxes. You've probably used ten different names over the last ten years. A long time ago something probably happened, something illegal and you ran, you disappeared and it was easy. You think you can do it again. But I'm telling you, fading from the law is nothing. No matter what you do, where you go, I swear to you that Bain will find you.
You don't know that -- you're trying to scare me.
Because he took a contract on you. He'll come for you and he'll find you.
If you walk out that door, Bain will still come after you.
Then you can have the disks and I'll just walk out that door --
This is something that is never going to end. You can never work in the business again with this contract, because he will find you. To survive, you have to go into deep hiding. And that's going to take money, a lot of money.
I don't need the money.
If it hadn't been for me, you would be dead.
I don't need you to get the money -- my money!
It's simple. You need me. I need you. And we will both need money.
I'm two seconds away from making my choice which means you've got two seconds to tell me why I shouldn't shoot you.
Don't tell me I don't have a choice!
We don't have a choice.
And you want to use me to get him?
The nature of the business. You remove your competition.
He wants to kill you?
Because he is trying to retire me.
He stole the contract knowing that I would come after him.
So this is something between you and him?
No. They hired Bain. The contract would have been mine, but Bain took it from me as he took the previous one.
Someone hired both of you?
Who is that other guy?
If I still was what I used to be, you would not be pointing that at me.
What does that mean?
Until a minute ago.
You're one of them, aren't you?
Yellow Pages. V for veterinarian. There aren't that many.
You didn't know anything about me.
You're the computer hacker, you tell me.
Okay. How did you find me?
No, stay in the car. I want you to understand something. If I intended to kill you, you would already be dead.
You want me to pump?
Turn off the engine.
Now you understand why I'm here.
Ten million --
I figure that means these are worth ten times that, maybe more.
The bonus on the contract for you was one million dollars.
What do you mean, 'that's all'? What in the hell do you know?
Twenty large? That's all?
I'm part of the game, just like you.
You're one of them, aren't you? A fucking pro.
I work for the government.
Who the fuck are you? Who do you work for?
Took a guess. Lucky for you, I guessed right.
What? How did you know I had a cat?
Nikita? She helped me find you.
Where are we going?
Get on the expressway.
One hour per man.
He has to clean up. How many bodies were there?
A pleasure doing business with you.
I'll make my usual arrangements and expect my usual bonus.
Jesus! Why didn't you tell me?
Right. In my hands I have five back-up disks he made of all of his work last night.
God damnit, Electra. This is not a game. This is business.
I thought it was interesting --
The point is, they are paying for information. Real information. Not tooth paste brands. Not whether he wads of folds his toilet paper. And no 16 hours of recorded phone sex. You are wasting everyone's time with this shit.
I wasn't watching television.
Is that all you want?
Are you asking me if I believe in another life?
Do you believe that?
Then, I'll sail alone.
Can you tell me about it?
All the time.
Do you ever think about starting over?
No. They call me, I don't call them. If they didn't call I wouldn't exist.
Do you think about their wives or their families?
But when you finLsh a job, afterwards do you think about them?
Everyone regrets something.
Do you ever regret things you've done?
I called because I just want... I need to talk.
That's okay, hon, I always expect the unexpected.
I think you're supposed to answer that question.
You're very good at this aren't you?
Holidays are our busiest days. No one likes to be alone on holidays. I know I don't.
Why are you working today?
I'd love one. Whatever you're having.
Would you like a drink?
How can a beautiful man like you be shy?
I prefer it like this.
Yes. Please come in.
Hi. Did you call --
Look at that. I haven't watched the sun set in a million years. Do you mind?
I used to think about it. I had Margaret. She wanted kids. I thought about moving somewhere far away like, Europe. I could see all of that, the first part, the getting away but I couldn't see that next part. 'Then what?' So I'd stop thinking about it and go back to work. You understand?
You mean quit?
Why didn't you fade?
Can I ask you a question?
When I thought about this, that was always there, in the back of my head, that image of me on my knees, crying. It wouldn't go away and it would really upset me. It was something that I could never get away from... but now, I feel it's okay. I feel good.
Do they get down on their knees, begging and crying?
Everyone handles it differently. Some are ready, some are not.
What do other guys do?
Can I ask you something?
And an R.C.
I'm thinking about Moonpies. Ain't that funny? I haven't had a Moonpie since I was ten years old. Right now, I'm thinking how much I'd love one.
What are you thinking about?
I thought that I would be thinking about Margaret, or work, or that I'd be having these deep, profound and depressing thoughts but I'm not. I'm trying to think really profound thoughts, but I can't. It seems very funny to me.
That's what our General Contractor told us but how can you trust someone like that?
Don't know. That's how it works.
That's exactly what I told myself.
Everyone who plays the game knows the rules.
'Taken.' That's nice. When I had someone taken I would call our General Contractor, transfer the money and as soon as I hung up the phone I forgot about them.
I have been thinking about this for a long while. I knew this day was coming. I knew someday someone would make the call on me. I never thought about anyone that I had whacked. What do you call it anyway?
Shit... oh well.
One hundred thousand? That's it? Jesus... Is that a lot?
Oh yeah? I guess we still need to see that price tag. Like art, right? You hang some painting that looks like baby-puke in your living room only if it costs a bundle.
It's a common question.
I know this may seem like a strange question, but can I ask you how much the contract was for -- not to insult you or anything, I know you're a professional, but just for me, I was just wondering.
I hope not.
You're pretty famous aren't you?
I think I've heard of you.
I don't know. Part of me wanted to but part of me always said, 'What's she going to be able to do?' I don't know. Maybe I didn't trust her.
Funny, I've never been a talker. My wife was always getting on me about that. 'Say what you feel, tell me what's bothering you, you ve got to talk to me.' I never would though. Not really.
Hey, do you mind if I talk a little? I feel like, I don't know, talking I guess.
Just a little ways. Up to those trees.
How much farther?
Of course, senor.
I'm sorry, but I am waiting for an associate. Can you hold everything for me until he arrives?
Excellent, senor. If you could follow me?
I have all day.
This will take some time.
How would you like the funds?
You wish to close this account today?
No, better than me. You know, I have many friends, you should meet more of them.
Your a good guy Chris you deserve a nice girl.
I don't know, maybe I'll enrol for postgrad' studies next Autumn.
It won't last, believe me. And you, when will you go back to the States?
Well, he sure seems fired up all of a sudden.
I don't know, I don't care. I see too much of him and he's changed. He used to be busy at the magazine. But now he's been doing nothing for months, like he doesn't care about anything, including me.
Sounds cool.....Do you think he's serious about squatting a place?
It's okay, they're training me on the cash register and after I hope to work on one of the jewellery counters.
So how's your work?
No, you guys are great together. He'll come through, I'm sure.
I used to think he was right about a lot of things but now I don't know. I thought he was going somewhere but now I think I am wasting my time.
I don't know. It's kind of underground. Doug's right, there's too much crap in this town.
Naz dravi!.....What do you like about this place, these people, Chris?
Hey Doug, you want a beer?
A coke, if they have it?
What are you having?
And pay for their drinks occasionally.
That's true Doug, writers are supposed to write.
What about me?
I should have read the fine print. I love you Holly, thanks.
Some deal you did there!
God, I think I need a holiday.
You could give me your baseball, so I can drive this bastard nuts.....He's been playing chequers for eight hours and still hasn't won a game.
Sure....Anything else I can do for you?
If I cut a deal, I'm not staying in this country and I want Holly to come with me. So, if she doesn't come here today, you're going to have to get her to me tomorrow; after I call, promise?
You're in the clear, keep it that way, I'll be okay.
Doug, I can't just leave you!
42 56 76......... Okay, you wait at Dave's for my call tomorrow, if you don't hear from me by three o'clock, send that note and get out of the country fast.
It's...42 56 76 .
Good, what's his number?
Yeah, Dave Walters.
Get me one of the disks. Ask a Czech girl to smuggle it in to me this evening. Put the others in a locker and write the details in a note to Reuters and be ready to send it, if this doesn't work. You'd better keep clear of your apartment too. Do you know someone with a phone?
What do you want me to do?
And if you're wrong.
No point, it'll be in Czech and God knows what format. But if I'm right, they could be my ticket out of here.
Do you want me to see what's on them?
Suppose those contained all the file info too? You could have a third or so of it there.
What happened to those disks I gave you, have you still got them?
It was all in Czech wasn't it.
Did you see anything in the files?
Maybe, but I've started to wonder what those files were all about. Suppose it was old KGB stuff and had the dirt on big people or maybe the personnel records of the secret police, that might explain all the hassle and the cover-up.
Well, it seems they've dropped any charge relating to the files.
You know, there is one thing I can't figure out. All along they've been bugging me about those files and when I told them I'd burned all that stuff, they went nuts - they told the Consul guy they were medical records?
I could try and get a Western lawyer.
Now you're using that word.
WE gotta think of something.
Well, the trial's in two weeks, but I think they've already sentenced me. They just need to check if Siberia can slot me in.
I don't know, I'm waiting for the transcript.
Yeah. I tell you, they're one big happy family over there.
Did you see a lawyer and go before a judge?
No, but I ran into Jahn, seems him and his friends are in big trouble with the University, they might even be expelled.
They're good guys..... Have you seen Holly?
Honza says they'll print an open letter to President Havel in next weeks edition even if they have to threaten a walk-out.
He got that one right.
I stopped by your office. Henry was steaming, he says he's going to throw you out of the window and that you never worked at the Bugler.
They ain't the only ones.
I had a visit from the British Embassy. They think I'm a stray soccer hooligan.
So I hear.
Your too good for this town, Buddy.
I don't want to ruin your day.
Tell me some bad news?
Chris! Tell me some good news.
He's lying! I am.
It's me you want, I'm responsible for all this.
Hey Jahn.....You got a name for this thing?
Does Jahn's thing have a name?
The performance is free what more do you want....I've set that old phone up as a donation box and I'll get Jahn to write out a sign....Okay, let's get going.
You capitalist pig!
Shit no, it'll be twice cost.
Good, and then type up a notice on your computer for tonight's thing, photocopy it and put it up in all the faculty buildings and a couple of the pubs. It'll start at eight o'clock and the bar will be open from seven. Holly and I'll go and get some beer and wine. Can you bankroll the bar for tonight?
You might make Henry happy......Sure, I'll do it.
Take the drill back to Honza at the office, I promised to get it back for the weekend and I don't want to show my face there.
Chris, can you do me a favour?
Nothing, it's just that's when things usually start to go wrong.
Yeah and I got the bruises to prove it. So what?
Don't tell me you really are in love?
Well, I take it you're going to drag her down to your minimal existence and adjust her mindset.
What are you on about?
A fine specimen for conversion.
She's as American as apple pie too. Have you figured out exactly what it is you despise about them?
It just happened.
Couldn't keep your hands off the hired help, huh?
You Romeo's sure pay a high price sometimes - anyone I know?
Didn't I tell you, she dumped me Monday night.
What happened to Katka?
No, the boyfriend.
And a tram hit you?
I fell in love.
My God! What happened?
I can't, I've got to split. I have to take a class at two o'clock.
Thanks. Come on Chris, give me a hand.
No, We aren't going to do it.
We could make a start on the floor afterwards.
Get me a couple of beers and a salami.
You're all bloody useless.
No, not yet.
Have you cleared all the rubble up?
Forget it Doug, it's no good.
I see, you've got your hands too far up your collective arse to pull it out long enough except to drink my bloody wine.
Both, see you later.
Red or white?
No, it could take me hours. You know what it's like trying to find things in this town, not to mention disposable stuff - I wouldn't think they've ever heard of them.
Why don't we go together?
You get the wine and I'll go see if I can rustle up some plastic cups.
Not on the opening night, wouldn't look right.
Here, let's both put in two hundred crowns. That should get nine or ten bottles of wine.
No, I figure once they see the place and we get'em a little drunk, they'll all want to help. We should have that floor done in a day or so.
You should have said it was Bring-A-Bottle.
We'd better get some booze in for tonight.
Sure, I think it_s your turn to buy too.
Fancy some lunch after we_re through with this Meccano shit?
Well, I think I_ve got a handle on the Czech pysche and I reckon this kind of joint will make _em reminisce about the sixties. Plus we should get a few stray expat_s looking for Kafka.
Do you think anyone will really come here?
When your ready Son!
Like a hand?
Who put a bee up your butt?
No, not if you've got better things to do.
Am I late?
We don't speak Czech!
So why didn't we?
Look at it this way, it's their contribution. If we'd explained it to them, they'd probably have given it to us anyway.
Why don't we just take the whole damn building, brick by brick Doug.
Not yet, we need a few lengths of scaffold.
Stealing's stealing, we might as well get what we need. This'll do for the floor and the walkway too.
Jesus Doug, they'll execute us!
We're going to need it all.
It looks new, they might miss one or two.
They'll never get us.
What's that, five instead of ten years jail.
Just aiding and abetting if it makes you feel better.
No, for the Asylum.
Like helping a sick kid?
Could you handle it if it was in a good cause?
Have you ever stolen anything?
Destroy the evidence huh.
I had a better idea, we'll burn them. There's a drum across the road; I was just waiting for the workers to go home.
I thought you were gonna throw these?
We got a party tomorrow night. Can't have the place smelling like shit.
Moved on to plumbing huh?
You'd be better off with tables and chairs.
See if she can donate some paintings or something to hang on these walls, give it a bit of atmosphere.
Yeah, her name's Kavlova, why?
Yeah, I'll take some.
Need any disks?
Is it gone four-thirty?
Look I gotta get going, shouldn't you have met Katka?
Don't worry if the old lady's there I'll brick it back up.
I don't know Doug, we haven't even got the place together and already you want to extend it.
I'll rig up something don't worry - Do you think I could bash through with that little hammer?
Why, how in the hell are we going to set up a cafe?
Well, it's definitely there - We've just got to get to it.
Just think though, it would make a hell of a cafe, that way we keep the auditorium clear.
Sounds like a good reason to leave it alone.
No way, it's sealed - if she's in there she's dead.
And suppose a little old lady lives there?
It must be fair old size, suppose it's empty?
Don't we have enough already?
I'd love to get in there.
I don't know. This wall isn't like the rest though, it's not all that old either.
But how did the wall get here?
It must be on the other side of this.
No, it's welded up!....Let's take a look from the inside.
Can you do the lock on it?
I don't know but that used to be a window and I think that was a door.
Just save me a little patch and I'll do it later.
Yeah, I'm beginning to see that.
Perfect, but I can't use it right now, I've got to get these locks done; it's a matter of priorities.
Yes, but it suddenly clicked, this is going to be a crazy place and, since the Commies are used to seeking asylum, we can use that in the marketing.
I've been saying that since we met.
None, it's mine - you said it earlier, I'm nuts.
Oh yeah, what's my connection to that?
Really, "The Freeman Centre"?
Nope, not even close. I've thought of a name for this place and you were the inspiration though.
I'm an idiot?
Yeah, that was Honza's idea, I had to buy him a few beers in return for the gear.
'cause you stink of booze.
Good, I love swinging a shovel.
I'll try not to, I'll leave that to you. Anyway, there's still plenty more of it.
Well, don't get carried away.
No, just making my contribution to cultural enlightenment, that's all.
Wow!....What have you been doing, rolling around in it?
You're nuts man, Katka's right!
Yep, except a name for this place.
Thought of everything haven't you.
Tell them we're working for the University.
And if the police stop by - what do I tell them?
No.....But I think Honza at the office has. You keep shifting this crap and I'll take care of the locks, shouldn't take long. Take a break for lunch and I'll catch you up later.
I'll settle for a pardon. You gotta drill?
I'm making history Chris, nothings going to stop me. There could be a knighthood for us in this, once President Havel hears.
A locksmith too? Why d'you ever bother with writing?
I'll drill the locks and replace the barrels, that way it won't cost so much.
I thought that was part of the charm!
Later Mate, right now I've got to do the locks on these doors so we don't have to climb through that bloody window every time.
Yeah, you're in luck there's two of them, the other's in there.
Not bad hey, I think I'll add Sparkie to my resume.....Good shovel!
You sure got a handle on that word "we".
Well, we might as well start filling it in now. As long as you leave enough room around that end of the pipe - so I can get to it, we're set. Use them wooden boards to stop it all spilling into the space - We'll neaten it up later.
Somehow, I'm going to have to band-aid that thing since we can't really replace it and then put a walkway over it.
Sure....As for the crap, I've got an idea.
And put it on expenses?
Scout around and see if there's something, check that other corridor. If there's nothing, nip out and buy a broom and shovel.
Just two things. What do I use to shift the stuff and where in hell am I gonna put it all?
Don't worry, I'll give you a hand as soon as I can.
I feel like a mole in this joint, so I guess I might as well come out lookin' like one!
Too right....Now the other thing we've got to do is start clearing up the rubble. Can you make a start on that?
That makes you an expert I guess.
No, he was talking about girls, I think.
He was an electrician?
No, but like my dad said, "There's only so many ways you can wire a plug".
Yeah, that could be job number two. I think it's a sewer.
Great. Let's say nine o'clock here tomorrow. Catch you later partner.
No, I got nothing till Tuesday.
You got my word on it.
Alright I give in. But let's not end up in jail. Okay?
Damn right it is, it's a chance to do something meaningful for a change, to leave our mark on this town. Hell, you'll probably be gone in another six months and all you'll have done is taught some kids the lines to a Led Zep' song - c'mon, don't run out on me now!
I don't know man, I'll drink beer and shoot crap with you anytime, but this is different.
Chris, what if I were to cut you in as partner in this project - together we could make it swing, all it needs is a good clean out and the power on, then we're in business.
No thanks, I think we ought to get going though.
You were right Jahn, it's a great space..... Hey, Chris. Do you want to come and look?
We could make a run for it?
Okay, it's in here somewhere. Let's keep it quiet.
It's big, right Jahn?
Puppet theatre, don't you need something a little bigger?
Well, it's like I said, there's a ton of empty buildings around here and most of them were apparently given back to the city, so they're not private.... Now, Jahn here is an drama student at the University. He knows of a building that they were going to turn into a puppet theatre - they even began work on it, until they ran out of money.
Okay, we're listening. But I'm with Katka on this one.
No "if's" or "but's" it's a cinch. Do you want to know what the icing is?
Amazing, he didn't even say "if".
Well, providing we're treated like Czechs and we squat something that's not privately owned, we should be in the clear; at least DOUG until they get an eviction order and bring in the bailiffs.
Care to elaborate?
Good news comrades, it's better than we'd hoped. Lubosh filled me in on the legal side of squatting here and it's a piece of cake.
These guys think the West is just MTV and Hollywood movies. We've got to show them there's more to it.
Like Custer huh?
Maybe, but someone's got to make a stand.
He's not drunk, he's crazy.
You've got to stop using that word "we" it's getting kind of scary. Right Katka?
What we need is a space for real performance art. A cultural exchange for radical expressionism.
So? DOUG Well, there's tons of empty buildings - why don't we get one?
Right and not just the bar, Lubosh and his mates took the whole freakin' building.
No, it's the whole idea behind it. How did they get this place?
I ain't sure poetry will go down too well here.
An alternative literary venue!
Oh yeah, what's that?
Still, fifty cents ain't bad.
This place is getting expensive too, used to be twelve.
What did the beer cost?
Hmm..Smells good. Cheers!
That's Lubosh, the greatest fiddle player in Prague. You must have seen him playing with Johnny on the bridge. ......Come on, let's grab a table.
Who's your friend?
Give'em a break Doug, all it takes is a little work.
Just because they've got a choice of four McDonalds, doesn't mean they can afford a cheeseburger.
What's that? Free!
It all comes down to ideology and they've lost theirs. If I'd been here ten years ago, maybe they wouldn't be in the mess they are today.
Yeah and they manage to go to bourgeois joints!
I don't have the money for those Bourgeois traps. Hell, I'm making what a Czech earns.
Never heard of K-MART?
No, just crap. I want some picture frames.
Anything in it?
Yeah, let's check out the low-life.
What about that squat bar you showed me, is that open on a Sunday?
You're outnumbered Kat two to one, got to go with the majority, that's democracy.
Sorry Katka, but I'm with Doug on this.
Well, this place is too expensive so you've had it.
We're only joking.....It is your round though!
You guys having a go a me or what?
And not even then sometimes.
Inspirations a fickle thing, you don't realise you had it till it's gone.
No you don't get it. Every cabby in town knows this joint. So where's the mystery, the danger?
But we are underground?
Yeah, but it's not just that. To the Czech mind, any movement, whether political or literary should be underground. If it isn't, then it's not radical and not worthy of a look-in.
Because it's in English?
Yeah right!....I don't know, something isn't right with this place, it's all too sterile and staged. Do you ever wonder why there's no Czechs here?
How to make a buck!
Wanker more like, what does he know about writing.
Son of the American ambassador and a banker - good enough?
What is it with that Josh guy? Who does he think he is shoving that Reflections rag down our throats?
Yeah, group bloody therapy time.
Fresh from the shrink I'd say!
What's that? A Democrat with an attitude!
He_s the closest we've got to an intellectual.
Turn around quick!
There shooting at something.
Yeah....Shit, those guys have guns.
It's that one isn't it.
Follow that Budjovice sign.
Okay, but I don't want to miss him.
Jesus Holly, we got enough time.
Take this exit.
Good we'll take Josh's Jeep, come on!
Yeah, pretty well.
No, by road?
Sure, it's on the red metro line you....
Do you know the way?
Well, he should be on his way back to his apartment by now.
Sure I'm sure!
You mean, Josh's father had nothing to do with it?
Josh didn't get Doug out of jail, he did a deal in return for some computer disks we'd held onto.
In return for Doug's freedom, I was never to see him again, I had to - it was his only chance.
What are you talking about?
It was a condition of getting Doug out.
I made a deal with Josh.
Listen, Doug took the rap for us all so grab your coat 'cause you're going.
You don't understand, I can't!
Look, I don't care whether you go with Doug or not, but you_ve got to see him before he leaves.
I can't go with him.
We ain't going to give it away this time, are we?
Yeah, no problem.
I'm not hungry, really.
Time for lunch I think. I'll get the sandwiches. What would you like Holly?
Sure, they wanted to know if I ever voted Conservative.
Before you go, did you get those bruises here?
Regards to Her Majesty.
Well a plea of ignorance won't go far here. Frankly, I think you deserve everything that's coming.
They didn't look like medical files to me.
Well, I'll try and get that clarified. As I understand it though, the charges include break and enter, theft, trespass, operating an unlicensed facility, vandalism and destruction of government documents - Whatever possessed you to start destroying people's medical records?
Now, have you been read your rights and are you aware of the charges?
I see, would you like us to inform her of your situation?
That's my mum's.
Your home address is 18 Thornton Avenue, Coventry.
Date of birth, November the fourth nineteen-sixty-two.
Now - Your name is Douglas Greenwell, yes?
So am I.
I don't know what it is with you bloody hooligans. Not content with causing trouble back home, YOU idiots have to go off and wreak havoc throughout the whole of Europe. And when finally, the police do catch up with you, you expect us to wave a magic wand and get you out, well not this time, I'm sorry.
You mean your NOT going to spring me?
I'm just here to record some details, standard stuff.
Turned Czech huh?
I'll take a rain-check for now.
I could pencil you in if you like?
We should be done by the weekend.
Hmm, I see possibilities but you got a lot to do.
I'd like to talk with you about doing some performance poetry here....A weekly thing.
Here's the details.
No! Look Lawrence, I've taken over the lease on a theatre downtown and I'm throwing a party tomorrow night to show it off. It's going to be for alternative arts, but I need some help to finish it off, can you put the word out?
Have you met Holly? Josh's friend.
I've been around.
Doug, haven't seen you for a while.
Hey, Lawrence how are you doing mate?
Not this time, Kat.
No, it's not true, you're lying.
It was a mistake, I never wanted to hurt you, but it had to end sooner or later and now, well now I love someone else.
But I love you!
Forget about me Kat.
I'm sorry about what I said, really I am. Just take me with you, I don't care where.
There's nothing there for me.
I don't understand, it's your home?
No Kat, I lied to you, I hate England and I don't ever want to live there again.
But we could go to London and live in England.
I'm no good for you Katka, besides I won't be able to stay in Prague.
If you get out can we be together again.
I hope so!
Will it help to get you out?
I thought for sure they would catch me.
Look, I love you Katka but I'm twelve years older, I could never marry you, it'd be stupid, you know that!
Then tell me, what will happen? Tell me!
No, I love you, really.
Right now, yeah - you're talking crap.
That's it, I am just stupid teenager, yes?
I'm not a bloody teenager okay, I told you I can't do that shit.
I could have my choice of many boyfriends and go to movies and discos but I waste my time waiting for you and then going to stupid pubs.
Oh sure and you will want sex, always sex.
That's not true, we have a great time together. I've said I'm sorry. Let's forget about it and go stop by my place, so I can get changed.
I thought you loved me Doug but all you want from me is sex.
I think I'm stupid.....All you do is use me and expect me to wait for you.
Fernet and tonic.
Beer please! Do you want another drink?
Yeah, you're right.... I've got an idea!
No way Doug, I can't.
I want you so bad. She'll be asleep soon, maybe we could do it quietly under the sheets.
It's bad news when you can't even bribe kids.
Let's have a look anyway.
Everybody is at home, it's no good.
I hope you're going to invite me in?
No, not just yet.
So, we won't be going to London?
Kat, I'm in paradise. I don't ever want to leave.
Nonsense, we can pick up the tram on the other side, it won't take any longer. Come on!
We should go to the Metro it's quicker.
Let's walk over the bridge, we haven't done that for a while.
I'm sorry but it's been a crazy evening. I'm going to make that place into something big. God, I love you!
It's not fair, you hardly talked to me tonight.
Alright, I'm coming. It's the perfect place Jahn, thanks.
Doug you said you wouldn't be long. Come on, I've got to go. Now!
Okay, whatever. Come on Chris!
I'm not going in Doug. I'll wait for you here.
Don't worry it's okay!
I don't want to get in trouble.
Look Kat it'll only take ten minutes. Without Jahn I might never find it... We'll just have a quick look and then you and I'll hit a tram.
Doug I can't, I've got to be at work by eight. You promised to take me home.
Look, just hear me out, okay?
What? You are crazy!
Don't give me this Kat, I'm doing it for you and your country.
No I'm not, I came to Prague looking for something - this could be it!
It's just talk, he's drunk.
You're everything a guy could want.
A word of advice my celibate friend. These Czech girls look like dynamite and go like it, but don't be fooled; there's a price to be paid and it's going up fast. Right Kat?
I'm not staying out late and I can't come back to your place.
I don't care. I'm not staying out late Doug.
So what's it going to be, Coogan's or U Vayvudoo?
How about you Brutus?
But I don't want to go, I am enjoying it.
I'll get the drinks, but not here. Let's split. I can't stand this any more, it's murdering my respect for literature.
Well, get me and Chris a drink then.
Well not any more, now I'm a serious writer and above this crap.
You used to read.
Why don't you read something after the break? DOUG What here? Weren't you listening to what I just said?
Ooh, well excuse me.
So why don't you get up and speak something, then we will see who is crazy.
I think he's jealous of Havel.
Shhhhh, I'm concentrating!
Lawrence is getting derogatory again.
Cool....So, if we say eight o'clock.
About forty minutes.
Great....How long will it go for?
Yes, it's looks good.....We will use this for the soundtrack and we will have two guys up there with the spotlights. The others will just be house lights.
Don't worry. Thanks.
No thanks, I must go, but maybe you could get some beers for the guys.
Don't go making it too simple, we're on the cutting edge here.
Yeah, it's a simple piece. If they get the floor done in time, me and the others will rehearse tomorrow afternoon, but it's not critical.
Great. And your all set for the performance?
They'll do it.
Yep, it's all yours.
I'll do my best. Is the place open.
Donations only! And make the thing non-lingual, so everyone gets a handle on it.
Can we charge admission?
Look, if you can get them to finish it by Friday, you and your friends can do the opening performance that night.
It's not so much.
There's three thousand crowns, it's all I got.
Well, I want them to put down a floor and a walkway.
Sure, they are students.
So I hear, do you know some of the stage hands?
Yes, The Obelisk but it's closed for repairs.
Later. Jahn, I've been let down by the guys who were going to do the flooring. They brought the materials but took my money and ran. You guys have a school theatre don't you?
Hi, want to take up dancing?
Hey Chris, keep an eye on things.
Sure, I've done it easily.
Interesting. Do reckon I could fit through here?
Don't worry, I've got lots of friends.
No, I am an actor not a labourer, I am just warning you, that's all.
And, since it's only two streets away, I suggest we go take a look. Now!
Yeah, for sure.
It's perfect, you've done a great job.
Tomorrow, we will bring some lights and also hang some fabric. I think it will be finished in the morning.
Yes, of course...maybe one hour.
Yeah, great....Dobchay! It will dry, yes?
It is okay........We will paint the wood black, yes?
And take Jiri with you?
There's three thousand and if you don't come through, I'm going throw you clean out of that window. Deal?
Two hundred dollars, make it six thousand crowns?
I got a bad feeling about this.... How much do you need?
Henry, I've been working my tail off on this. Look, all I need is a little cash to loosen up some tongues and you've got the scoop. It'll send those scum-bags down for life; be a big feather in the cap for the Bugler and your board of directors back home!
What pay-check? You ain't done nothing!
You can hold back this months pay-check until I come through with the story.
A month, Jesus! And how do I know you're not crapping me?
I'm in close with these guys, it isn't easy, but slowly they're opening up to me. Give me a month and I'll blow their movement wide open.
Henry, these guys already push most of the drugs in this town and now they want to move into pornography, right? Believe me, it won't stop there either, next it'll be a church and pretty soon they'll have their own department store or something...... Henry, we've got to stop them. The foundation's got to put an end to it!
That's only the half of it. I've heard a rumour they're taking over a theatre to use for alternative arts; you know what that means?
Ah, so what?
You mean you don't know, Henry! We got a bunch of anarchists, controlling a six-level block of luxury apartments down on Janovska street here in the Old Town, and you don't know about it?
I will tell you - within a week I will have the transcript and we can go through it.
How do I know what's being said?
Of course, you can see that lady over there, she is recording everything.
You mean it's started?
No, it should be over soon.
Will this thing take long?
I don't know - maybe they are talking about it now. Mr Vitovetch is a good friend of the Judge.
Will they free me?
What is bail?
Any chance of getting me out on bail?
Cool....Either of you know the way to Krakow?
Where did you steal the car?
Oh shit, yeah. Can you lend some more money?
Weren't you going to get some glasses?
Head the flyers up with Asylum and then put Debut of....Psychosis, Theatre experimental. That'll cover us if it flops. On the bottom put seek Asylum where the stars shine on Betlemska.
Why don't we both forget about him?
Hmm, I still owe him.
Better than you.
How did he look?
Yeah, but it was okay.
Run into Josh?
Did you take your things over to my place?
I'd better get going, do you need a hand to get into bed?
Don't you have a girlfriend?
Who you saving the dishes for?
Are you sure I shouldn't get a doctor.
I had it coming from someone.
It's all my fault, I'm so sorry Doug.
I'll be okay, just get me home.
I'd better get you to a hospital.
One beer, one coffee, thanks.
No, just a coffee.
What would you like, beer?
Yeah seems okay.
Is it dry?
Yeah, we'd better keep them for now, I'll try and get some glasses for tomorrow night.
Shall I wash these out?
I know, some are trapped, usually by money.
We_re not all running away
No, I'm just running scared, same as everyone else.
A champion of lost causes huh?
I moving more to Communism now it's dying out.
I figured you more as a Socialist?
It's a student magazine networked through Eastern Europe and funded by Republican do-gooders back in the States.
What's the Bugler?
Well, I've failed at everything else I've done and I can't hack it as a journalist, even for the Bugler.
Why are you doing all this, what for?
The way I look at it, I've carried the camel to water and stuffed it's head under - if it doesn't drink now, we might as well shoot the thing and call it a day.
Seems a shame!
Alright, go help Chris shovel up the last of the crap.
That's not what you said last night. And, I didn't bring that "prick" Josh.
We don't need you.
I thought I'd help out.
Sure as long as you don't bring that prick Josh. Thanks Lawrence.
Am I invited?
I'll put one on the notice-board too.
Well she sure isn't normal.
No act of love but willing violence demanded by one and begged by the other. As life turned to fantasy and reality to ecstasy a need, so deep no light could reach, surfaced like a nocturnal creature unearthed for momentary and glorious display. Left alone in a rose-tinted afterglow dimming fast she tasted the moisture of her body and wondered why light came to day and such desires to her pale-skin body.
I insist, it is the least we can do.
That's okay I like the metro, it's only a couple of stops from here.
Yes, you are free to go, Karel here will drive you home.
We had a deal!
Good, wait here, it will not take long and then you may go.
Central station, locker number 139 - combination JFK.
Release Mr Greenwell's possessions.
Would you like your things now?
You may use my office.
I'll need to make a phone call.
You have the letter and my word, if you wish you may wait upstairs....Now, where are the disks?
How do I know this isn't a trap?
I have the Director's word, there will be no action against them. You may go once we have the disks.
And the students?
The choice is yours, it's not negotiable.
I'm not sure it's possible.
First, I want to walk free with a letter, in English, from the Prosecutor General dropping all charges. Second, I want two first class tickets to London leaving tonight and three thousand crowns in a stamped envelope. Lastly, all actions against the students are to be stopped!
What is it you want?
I didn't get to see what's on the disks but I can guess. Do you want to hear my terms or not.
You are playing a very dangerous game, I suggest you make it easy on yourself and tell me where they are.
Not all of them!
Good try Mr. Greenwell but a little late. We have analyzed the contents of that drum, the remains of the disks are there, just as you said.
I lied to you, I didn't destroy the floppy disks.
Thanks, but I don't intend to stay.
We'll have to see what more we can do for you, while you are still our guest.
Enjoying our hospitality?
Either you're a liar or you are a fool.
A kind of freedom.
What was the real purpose behind this venture?
It was the biggest I could find.
Why did you break into that particular building?
You will wish you hadn't.
And you broke into that room?
Yes, they had nothing to do with it.
This is your doing?
No way, he even gave me back pay.
So, he didn't fire you?
Come on, that shit can wait.
But I have to finish this....
Great, let's break for lunch and I'll buy you a beer on the way.
No problem, is it at your place?
Okay, Okay, but I want it right back. It belongs to my father.
Give me a break, will you. How often do I ask you for something?
Come on, don't me give a hard time. I'm just trying to make the place look nice for Katka.
You don't have fifty foot of apartment!
And a fifty foot extension lead?
Nothing. I've got to put up some kitchen shelves that's all. You've got one haven't you?
A drill, what are you up to?
No, just a drill.
Hey Doug, where you been?
Alright, I'll see to it and things'll be just as they were, okay?
Yes, if you can get him free.
Will you come home and forget all about him?
You really are a piece of work, you know that? You walk out on me and my family for some worthless bum and you expect us to help him when he screws up.
Josh, I need your help. Doug's been arrested, he's in big trouble. I thought maybe your father and the Embassy might be able to do something.
So, what have you got to say for yourself? Was he good in bed?
Can we talk in your office?
Of course Darling, you'd like to apologise?
Josh, I have to speak you, it's urgent.
Honey what a pleasant surprise, sorry to keep you waiting.
Don't you dare, I'll be back!
Shall I look after the rest?
Yeah and you're a slut, so what?
It's more than what you're worth.
Go to hell!
That's my bag.
Leave me, just leave me alone Josh.
Come on Holly!
It's time to go home, Holly.
I don't want to go.
Well, for a start, you've got to get cleaned up.
I think we should be going honey.
Okay honey, but don't be long. I got plans.
Yeah, so I hear. Don't you think you should go get changed?
Well come on, sit down.
See you brought one of the patients with you too.
I decided to help out at the Asylum.
Oh that's it? Everything I do is crap!
All I'm saying Honey is run the thing past me for Christ's sake before you get up and broadcast the crap.
Maybe it is!
Shit Honey, you could've told me. People might think it's about us!
When the hell did you write that?
Subtitles) You have made many mistakes Pavel, let there be no more, for your sake.
Delay Mr Greenwell's departure until the disks have been located and you have notified me. Then, have one of your officers drive him home - I'll see to the rest.
It was all on a Russian format, I don't think that would be so easy; we must take that chance.
What if his accomplices have made copies?
All the more reason to eliminate him.
And there has been enquiries from the American Embassy maybe they are involved?
I don't care about Americans. Arrest them all if you have to, but keep those records secret.
And what of these foreigners?
That was not my decision, I can only guess that one day we will again be active and our honour restored. In the meantime no one else must know those files exist. Secure the building and I will arrange alternative safe storage immediately.
It was crazy not to have destroyed them
I don't think you realise what will happen if those files are made public. The lives of thousands of officers depend on the secrecy of those records, including your own now.
I don't understand it, there were a lot of people there last night, many Americans, I believe we should move carefully.
Have you lost all control of this city?
So, who is in the building?
Yes, I think so, it is still barred, but it is not the University who are in the building.
The University cannot do this. Is the room safe?
The building has been occupied and the locks have been changed.
What are you an idiot!
We're not sure...
You are responsible...What has happened?
The storage facility will be ready within a week, I'll call you then.
The files are in a sealed room and the University are under strict orders to stay away.
You are quite sure it's secure?
In a building belonging to the University in the Old Town.
You know everyone can be controlled Pavel. Where are you storing the personnel files?
This press we cannot control. Americans, I think.
Why are there still such headlines?
And I have no idea why.
No. You're with who you should be. It's like she chose you.
I'm sorry about how we --
Pictures from the play. Jamie looks pretty --
I'll tell her you were here.
Because she doesn't know what a hint is.
That's one girl who can't take a hint.
Heart be still.
She's coming over here...
I. Don't. Dance.
So go dance.
Landon, honey. There's nothing more.
Everything's being done but it's not enough. I have to find something -- more.
Landon. You have two parents. We're both here for you even --
Now it's okay?
He wants to talk to you.
What are you doing here?
Be yourself and I don't think there is a wrong thing. Let Jamie take the lead. She'll let you know what she needs.
I have no idea what to say. How to act. What if I do the wrong thing?
It was the only thing I've ever asked him!
I told him to leave me alone.
I didn't know either.
I'm sorry. I didn't know.
Mom, great. But what I want is for me to be proud of me.
Have I told you how proud I am of you -- ?
Whatever my life is, I'm going to be friggin' sure I'm never disappointed --
But if it doesn't happen, grab for something within reach. Life's tough enough without causing yourself disappointment --
That'd be something.
I could do it if I tried. Even Kelly thinks so.
That's eight years of school and training -- after college. And all that doesn't necessarily make you a better human being.
I meant he's a doctor.
You do. You're handsome and charming.
I could take after Dad, too.
Honey, some of this is... farfetched. You take after me. People skills and common sense. Good dependable qualities.
You sleeping with her?
Were you with Jamie?
Late night. You?
A late night or an early morning?
No. I won't be long.
To see your father?
I haven't seen Clay or Eric lately.
There's hot cider in the kitchen.
You're fine like that, Mom.
You look nice. I should have dressed.
You going to let him? You going to reward him by being the son he was never man enough to be a father to?
He wants to show now.
After he moved out, I invited him to every practice, every game, every parent-teacher conference you ever had. He didn't show, not once.
We talked. He wanted to get a bite -- after. I said no.
You saw him?
I can't know things if you don't tell me.
That's over. Way over.
Out with Belinda?
-- I like the car I have.
It could help with a new car --
I don't want his money.
Your father dropped off an extra check.
About a job.
You don't need a car you can't drive for a month. Go see Marvin.
I'm not hanging. I'm fixing my car --
Cuz nothing happened at school.
Kelly wouldn't do that.
What if they expel you?
No. Hey. We're sorry, man!
Say nothing. Nothing 'bout her.
Scamming's a strong word.
And that you're scamming on Jamie Sullivan.
Belinda's telling everyone that kiss was real.
She's not. She's got her own ideas.
She's like some Puritan.
And you don't. What's she doing in there?
You do --
Don't call him a dipshit.
I'm just wondering --
No thinking. The doctor only gives you three seconds to decide --
I need to whizz.
Where is he? He's supposed to be here.
No. Thanks. Gotta keep my wits for the drive home.
Get yourself a glass.
What kind of a man are you, son?
I'm very sorry --
Landon Carter. I was driving the car that --
Who are you?
But if you could, you would?
Landon. I can't even do for myself.
Will you do something for me?
You'll be fine for a few minutes.
Can I -- go out?
It's not that simple. It costs money to do this at home.
I'll talk to your father.
No. Maybe I believe God has a bigger dream for me than I had for myself. Maybe I believe the journey, the big adventure, never ends...
Because you have hope that you'll get better?
It's gone now.
Better. I was really angry.
How're you doing?
That was read at my parents' wedding.
'Love is always patient and kind. It is never boastful or conceited -- '
'Find out who you are and do it on purpose.' Dolly Parton.
Lower. Same page.
'What is a friend? A single soul dwelling in two bodies.' Aristotle.
How you doing?
I was going to fake it.
You know how to waltz??
I'm not going back to school.
Whatever you need. Whatever Jamie needs. I'm here. I could start by driving her to school --
That's what I mean.
I've talked to your father.
I don't want to come here anymore.
Now? We just --
That I want you to take me home.
What are you thinking?
I used to like yogurt.
Slim Jim? Apple? Yogurt? You like yogurt.
Anything you want.
Help me live until I die?
All the time. I feel like I have no one.
Are you frightened?
No. The drugs just stopped working. If anything, doing things I love kept me healthy longer.
I made you do too many things, kept you up all night --
I should have told you sooner --
I'm so sorry. I'm a coward --
The doctors said to do everything the same as long as possible. I didn't want anyone being -- weird around me.
Why didn't you tell me?
Then I'll take you home. You'll feel better tomorrow.
What are you going to -- ?
You're going to take a year off? Join the Peace Corps -- ?
I'm not applying to college.
You're worried about your college applications.
Yes, one of many.
One of your secrets.
Yes. I try to keep my power.
That what you do?
Care, but just don't let it get to you. It gives them power.
I don't care.
From citizen high to citizen low.
Because I had it named for you. I know it's not an official designation --
Here. Why am I looking at this star?
Can you locate XXI5639I?
What's the best thing I can see tonight?
I'm always home by midnight and he's always asleep.
What about your father?
No. Why? Are you seducible?
Are you trying to seduce me?
Hoped for it.
You planned this --
A Thermos of hot coffee. A blanket. Socks.
Mars doesn't rise until 2:30
So what do you want to see?
In my back yard. I lied before. It's hardly started. But when it's done, it will have twice the power of this one --
Where's the one you're building?
It's an alt-azimuth design with one parabolic mirror and one secondary flat one.
I was twelve.
When did you build this?
The truth. I just left you out of it.
What'd you tell your father?
Look. Talk. Not talk.
What would you do up here?
From here he proved to me the earth isn't flat. On rainy days, we'd be above the clouds.
Before the divorce. My father used to take me here. Fire spotting was his summer job.
How do you know this place?
Away from here.
The Challenger exploded. Principal Kelly's about to make an announcement.
Twice a year.
Assholes. This happen to you?
That. And less strange.
You make me feel...
I might do it wrong.
Maybe you're not supposed to.
I don't understand...
Wonder. Beauty. Joy. Love.
What do you actually know with religion?
Uncertainty makes you uncomfortable.
We can measure wind.
I'm sure. Pretty sure.
You're sometimes not sure?
It's places like this that make me certain there's a God.
You're straddling the state line. You're in two places at once.
You're acting like a crazy person.
Stand right here.
That what's happening to you, only faster?
The cells in our bodies are always changing. In six or seven years all your cells have changed. You could be like a completely new person from the inside out.
What are you talking about?
It's about working with what you already have -- right now -- at your fingertips -- you know, spontaneously.
Before we do this, I just want to say that a good life's gotta be about more than achieving stuff -- like on your list.
We're doing something -- ?
Before we do this.
I know you want to.
We're going somewhere. After. And no. I didn't ask your father.
It's only 7:30.
I have to get you home by one.
Is there a rush?
I wanted this to be a date.
I can't believe you asked my father's permission.
I'm not allowed to date.
Yes. But not as a date date.
No. But are you -- impressed?
Why are you doing all this? To impress me?
She great or what?
I heard what you did. Thank you.
It means you can do anything.
What does that mean?!
When I have something to say.
So you're talking to me?
Yeah, with a finish in about a decade.
It's a start.
Because then you couldn't hide behind your books and your telescope and your sweater and your God.
And why would that scare me?
You don't either. Take a look at yourself. Maybe you're scared that someone might actually like you --
You don't know what you want --
I don't want to be just your friend --
You don't know the first thing about being someone's friend --
Okay. Maybe some of that is true --
All of it.
That sounds like horseshit.
Maybe you inspire me.
And that would ruin your reputation how?
People can see.
You're hardly nice to anyone.
I haven't been nice to you.
Thank you. So were you.
You were great the other night.
Healthy as can be.
Then maybe you can read mine.
That's it! Exactly! You're reading my mind --
So it's like you want to be secret friends.
That would be the reason.
Belinda's a very jealous person.
Or anywhere where people might see us.
Oh. Just not at school...
The play's in a couple of weeks.
You don't miss a thing.
You're not in a very good mood.
I'm really glad you think so.
The play's going to be really good.
Sometimes I don't even trust me.
He doesn't trust you.
Your father doesn't like me.
Interpreted by another guy like my father.
The Bible. Why should I read a bunch of dumb stories about some ancient guy who supposedly worked miracles.
You don't believe in anything?
You have to believe to have faith.
There is no point. You live. You die. The end.
I know there's a plan for everyone, but sometimes I don't understand what the message is -- or what the point is.
Do you ever wonder why things happen the way they do?
Like in a church painting. I see this giant hovering over the ground. He's wearing a robe, and has long flowing hair, and he's pointing his finger at something.
But you think about Him -- It -- Her.
My relationship with God is my own.
In ten words or less?
You're really into God, right?
In 76 years, me neither.
Yeah. I'm probably not going to be around next time it comes.
The dirty snowball at its core.
I'm building a larger one to see the nucleus of Haley's Comet --
I hope so. I think maybe she sees me now.
Do you believe you'll see your mother again?
Looking for something -- someone.
Looking for intelligent life?
Or building blocks for a world that never formed.
Maybe debris from a moon that broke apart.
But there are thousands of them, made of floating ice --
Before Voyager we expected maybe a dozen rings --
That is my telescope.
What is that?
The world of the dead?
Cuz it's dark and quiet and you can see into another world.
Do you think I'm strange?
Yeah. Maybe. I dunno.
Because I try to be nice to people?
You think so.
He's a softy. Got him wrapped around my finger.
I know. Don't say anything.
I'll get something for us to drink --
And you have to meet my father.
No problem --
I do know. Be two places at once... learn to hit a baseball or turn a cartwheel... eat breakfast with chopsticks...
Like you'd know.
Spend a year in the Peace Corps. Make a medical discovery --
Get very wasted. Lose your virginity --
You want to tell me...
So what else is on this list?
It's like a to-do list, but for my life.
Go for it.
I'll take a chance.
Maybe a little of both.
Are you asking to mock me or do you really want to know?
You got some kind of list?
The reason I got the part... I'm a little like Lizzie. Except I don't worry about some man rescuing me.
I'm an enemy?
28 is do something illegal. 42 is befriend an enemy.
What's with the friggin numbers?
So you agree you need help?
What the -- ?!
No. Not like you.
Fire is like a living thing. Wild. Unpredictable.
Because that's where the fire is?
Then we both know. I'll point. You drive. Faster.
I know you don't want help.
-- Your act only works with an audience.
That's deep --
-- I know you don't suck at acting.
This play -- ?
-- This play means a lot to me.
You're like this fly, buzzing buzzing everywhere --
'Yes. You're-you're b-b- beautiful.'
'Is it really me?'
'Believe in yourself and they will. Let me ask you, Lizzie. Look in the mirror? Are you pretty --?'
'I hope your dreams come true.'
Good, cuz talking to you is like trying to explain red to a blind person.
I don't want to have any conversation.
Can't you have a normal conversation?
Like what? The moons of Jupiter?
You mean care what you say? I'm worrying about other things.
-- I wear the sweater because I'm cold. I read because no one talks to me. My hair is my hair. What is it exactly that's bothering you?
Your book and your brown sweater and your hair. What's more to know -- ?
You don't know me.
Because, growing up, books were my world.
I don't make small talk --
-- This your idea of small talk?
He goes to my father's church. He could've died --
I was wrong. Nobody could have wanted or loved your mother more than we did. Not even God.
When Mom died you told me God wanted her more, loved her more --
By making me ill, he is punishing me! I just don't know what for.
That's normal. God accepts your anger. He won't punish you.
I am mad at you! And at Landon! And the universe! And God! I don't even know where to put all my anger.
Jamie, you're not mad at me. You're mad at Landon --
No you didn't. But he did change. Just not enough.
This -- him -- Landon -- is what's best for me!
No. I want what's best for you.
Maybe. But that's not the real reason. You think if I tell, he'll disappear and that's what you want! Me all to yourself!
It's time to tell him. It would be the right thing.
I'm asking how much.
I have expectations, too.
Boys like him have -- expectations.
It was a play.
I saw the way he looked at you. The way he kissed you.
Did you give him a gift?
I thought we had rid ourselves of his disagreeable companionship.
What's Landon Carter up to?
Dad, I've become a woman without her. Just not a pretty one.
I'm sorry your mother isn't here to help you become a woman.
Fine. But I need to start deciding how to spend my time and my life.
I don't want you to see him outside school activities.
I'm supposed to always be alone?
Jamie, he's careless. Reckless. Is this really the best time to be making a new friend...?
By accident --
He wants help with his lines --
The Carter boy. Tell me about him.
She did. It was you.
I'm sorry she never got her miracle.
Jamie wanted that. She told me.
You're marrying again.
You've been well?
She did. But hardly anyone does anything truly alone.
I thought she built it herself.
I helped Jamie with the first one.
You know about this stuff?
For the focuser?
I'm using an old phonographic turntable.
You have materials for the side bearings?
I've almost finished the rocker. Did she order mirrors?
I need to be with her.
I'm not tired.
Landon. You go on home.
If there is a God, how could he let this happen??!!
Landon. We've lived with this for over a year now and --
Her doctors have. Jamie and I. We're still praying for a miracle.
How -- how long does she have?
It's her decision and she's decided not to tell people -- at least for now.
Materially or spiritually?
How do you -- the two of you -- get by?
Since I was five. My mom's a cocktail waitress.
Your parents are divorced?
We didn't tell him any different for years --
Okay. Sure. My grandfather. When he was seven, he shook the hand of an old guy, a war vet or something, who had once shaken President Lincoln's hand. Made a big impression on him.
How about your family?
Like what, sir?
So talk to us about something.
Landon. You're not the quiet type.
I don't want to see her hurt.
I care for her.
That won't be possible.
I'd like to take Jamie to dinner on New Year's Eve.
Does it have to do with Jamie?
Reverend Sullivan. Can I ask you something?
Let's get something straight. You don't know me. I don't know you. But I know what you're about. Keep your distance from this house -- and from Jamie.
Apropos of nothing... so. So so so so --
You're in the play?
I'd gladly write you a letter of recommendation.
I've seen students with records like yours go to J.C. for a couple of years, then transfer to a good college.
You came here to give me my report card?
Your grades for fall semester. They're -- good.
I didn't say you did.
It's mine to give. I didn't steal it.
Where did you get -- ?
For Jefferson High. For books.
-- You can and you will, Mr. Carter.
No way. No thanks. I can't do it --
Then you remember more than I do.
Landon, none of us faculty see you the way you see yourself. Some of us remember how your father --
You don't. That's the point.
When do I get time for me?
Or something. They're doing a play for the holidays.
I'd work backstage or something?
Finally, I'd like you to join the drama club. Rehearsals are Tuesday and Thursday evenings.
I'm as underprivileged as they are --
For the inner satisfaction it will bring. Saturday mornings, I'd like you to tutor disadvantaged students at our sister school --
Besides attending all your regular classes, I'd like you to help our janitorial staff after school --
Shall I give you a few ideas?
How would you do that, Mr. Carter?
I'd do that --
You could grace our hallowed halls again, if, while you're here, you make a sincere effort to be part of our little school community --
I want to come back.
Finding the real world to your liking, Mr. Carter?
That's right. The world is your oyster.
Now I can do what I want.
That's right. You just act like one.
I'm no dummy.
Like you'd make it to June. Even cutting half your classes, you have a B- average.
Okay. Make me an isosceles.
What else? What kind of triangle has three sides of different lengths.
A similar triangle?
So what did we just make?
Am I at the same angle to you and the basket as before?
Where's your old man?
What do you want, Biff?
Listen you little Asshole, I oughta --
The day I show respect to Biff Tannen will be the day I win a million dollars... What's the matter, Biff, they're not showing you any respect down at the golf course? Don't they realize what a tough job it is keeping the criminal element away from the country club?
Show me some respect, you little asshole. It's Special Officer Tannen to you.
What do you want, Biff?
Well, well, he smirked when Marty opened the door. If it isn't the neighborhood bootlegger, Al Capone McFly?
And you never heard of rock 'n roll?
Uh, yes, sir...
This is 1952....?
I beg your pardon?
I don't get it. How come there's no rock 'n roll?
This... is the number one single?
I don't know. National Cash Register?
Third time they've been out there this week.
Dick, what's with those guys out there in the gutter?
Hot tip, Rubber Biscuit in the third race at Arlington.
Gimme some chili, fries, and a Tab.
Marty. What's for breakfast?
I think I know exactly what you mean.
You mean like how you're supposed to act with someone on a first date?
Well, Eileen...jeez, that's hard for me to say. Have you ever been in a situation where -- well -- you know you have to act a certain way, but when you get there, you don't know if you can go through with it?
Uh, yeah, well, believe me, I sure feel like I know you!
I'm usually nervous myself on first dates...but not tonight. It's funny, but somehow, I feel like....like I know you.
Oh, no, I'm fine...fine.
Are you all right, Marty? You seem a little...nervous.
Listen, Professor Brown told me you called last night and gave me your message...
Marty, you haven't been listening. Nobody's asked me to the dance...yet.
He comes out of the cafeteria line, he's nervous, he spills his corn, and he asks you to the dance!
But he does! Don't you see?
But he didn't ask me.
George! He's supposed to ask you to the dance!
Yeah. Maybe so.
Nine o' clock. Oh, I'm late! Maybe I'll see you later.
What time does school start around here?
School? I never thought of school! If I went to school I could blend in with everybody else, couldn't I?
Then you'll be going to school here....?
Oh, I'm feeling much better now.
Well, I was on my way to school, and I just wanted to stop by and see if you were feeling okay. You seemed like you were in pretty bad shape the other night.
How could I forget? Oh, sure, I remember you.
You remember me...?
Have we ever met before?
Here's your jacket!
How old are you?
I don't think I like the idea of you staying out all night with a girl!
Mom, how else are we gonna see the sunrise?
You mean you're going to stay up all night?
How was school today?
I was practicing. I've got an audition next week -- I gotta practice. How am I gonna get famous if I don't practice?
I've been calling you for five minutes! Didn't you hear me?
Oh -- I'm all right. Say, listen, about this dance Saturday night --
How are you?
Uh, hi, Eileen.
Is that what you were going to ask me, George? To go to the dance?
George, if you don't want Chinese food, pick a place you want to go and make a reservation.
Eileen, Chinese food again?
By the way, that reminds me... Saturday night we're taking Grandma Stella out for Chinese food.
Now, George! Dinner's ready now!
No, George, just concentrate on the anger. Anger.
Maybe if I used my left....
Yes, definitely, god dammit George, swear. Then you hit me in the stomach, I go down for the count, and you and Eileen life happily ever after. Now, hit me in the stomach.
Oh. Uh... 'Hey, you! Get your damn hands off her!' George paused. You really think I should swear?
Your line, George!
George it's not your concern. Don't worry about it. Just remember that at 9:00, you'll be strolling through the parking lot and you'll see us -- struggling in the car, you'll run over, open the door and say....?
You mean, you're gonna --
Why is she gonna get angry with you?
Okay. So right around 9:00 she's gonna get very angry with me -
In the parking lot, with her.
And where am I gonna be?
I'm going to be at the dance.
You're not picking a fight, you're coming to her rescue. Maybe we'd better go over the plan again. Where are you gonna be at 8:55?
But I've never picked a fight in my entire life!
How many times do I have to explain it to you?... We know you're not a fighter. You know it, I know it... but she doesn't know it. That's why we gotta make you look like a fighter, somebody who'll stand up for her, somebody who isn't chicken. And you're not gonna look like a fighter if you can't hit me in the stomach.
Look, Marty, I'm just not a fighter...
You're not gonna hurt me. Just hit me in the stomach.
I don't want to hit you in the stomach!
Bic... It's a Bic pen.
'Bike fine point?'
Lemme see that.
It was Marty's turn to be confused. Huh?
What is that? A pencil that writes in ink?
Nothing. Look, I'll write it down for you, okay?
Christ, it's a miracle I was even born!
Oh, no! That was for the cafeteria! This is different!
Say what you were supposed to say in the cafeteria.
What do I say?
George, she's beautiful, right? She's nice, she's decent, she's the kind of girl you'd like to marry, right? And there's nothing in the world you'd like more than to take her to that dance, right?
You've gotta ask her to the dance!
Jeez, what do you think? To see it!
The sunrise? What for?
Saturday night's the 'Springtime in Paris' dance. I'm taking Suzy Parker.
No, Chinese food is fine.
The drill! The power drill I bought you for Christmas. I was using it last night.
Dad, you seen the drill?
Run out of gas?
Well, yeah, I was thinking, if cars are gonna be going two or three hundred miles an hour, they're gonna be using an awful lot of gas. Like, what if we run out?
You're the only Mr. Lewis in this class. If you have something to say, say it so the whole class can hear.
Marty. Marty Lewis.
You have a name?
Uh -- yeah. I'm new here, and I'm supposed to be in this class.
Yes, that's my name. Who are you, young man? Are you supposed to be here?
Hey, Mr. Arky, gimme a break! I'm seventeen years old! I'm not responsible for all these problems!
Unfortunately, the way things are going, you may get your wish. You may see the entire annhiliation of the world. If not, you'll certainly see the destruction of all out natural resources. We can already see the air we breathe, not to mention the pollution in our rivers and lakes. We'll see all of our oil reserves depleted, in fact, all of our energy sources. Yes, you people have a lot to look forward to -- a lot to see.
Yeah, explode it up your ass!
All I can say is, that's one helluva attitude, Mr. McFly. 'Let's explode a hundred megaton Geothermal nuclear device, just to see it.'
You know damn well that's not what I meant.
Mr. McFly here wants to nuke it all, just so he can see it!
Not a holocaust --
You'd like to see a nuclear holocaust?
Nineteen fifty --
Operator, what's today's date?
I'm sorry, there's no answer.
Five cents, please.
Oh -- right! Uh, Madison 3489.
Local calls cost five cents. What number do you want?
Sir, it only costs a nickel.
Operator! Listen, this is an emergency! I have to make this call, but I don't have a dime -- all I got is a nickel -- but you gotta connect me --
Pro! Release the rope!
Okay, Martin. You have a good evening now.
Home, school, here...
Been any place unusual in the past twelve hours?
No, no, not beyond an acceptable level. Have you been X-rayed recently, Martin?
What, am I radioactive or something?
What's this all about?
Good evening, one said. Agents Reese and Foley, from the Nuclear Regulatory Commition. Mind stepping over here?
It's the most beautiful city I've ever seen! What is it?
Pretty, isn't it?
What theater was I at?
But I told everyone your disappearance was due to a teleportation experiment you were helping me with. So don't mention anything about time travel to anyone.
According to your girlfriend, Suzy Parker, you and she were at the movies. You went to the restroom and you never came out. Obviously, you stepped through an inter-dimensional time warp, created by the original operation of the time machine.
But if you didn't rebuild the time machine, how did I go back in time in the first place?
87 states? Time travel bans? What the hell?
You see, I never rebuilt the time machine after it was destroyed in 1952. I decided that experimenting with time and possibly changing history was too risky. Anyway, experiments in time travel were banned in all 87 states after the governor of Cuba caught Dr. Felstien fooling around in the Bermuda Triangle -- that was back in '64.
What do you call this?
Hop in, Marty, . We've got a long drive ahead of us.
1982! March 18, just like we planned! My calculations were absolutely correct! Thirty years! God, I cannot believe it's been thirty years! Sure, it was a long time ago -- longest I've ever had to wait for the results of an experiment!
What year is this?
Professor -- there are some doors that shouldn't be opened, Marty said softly, without turning around.
Marty, I know I've repeatedly asked you not to tell me anything about the future, but....well, those loud bangs on the tape recorder....are they....
Professor Brown grinned. I guess I'll see you in... about 30 years.
Thanks for everything, Pro.
We're at one and a half miles, so you're just a little over a mile from where you want to be, Wait until minus 3 minutes before you go -- that should give you plenty of time, and it should be close enough to zero hour that they can't do anything to stop you. Park the truck at 800 and get in the refri-- the time chamber. Just be sure the nose of the truck is pointed at the bomb....the power converter will do the rest.
It was sure nice of Uncle Sam to put those yardage markers up for us.
Curious... Very curious.
Nope. My father's never clenched a fist in his entire life!
It could happen at the moment you arrive back in the future, theoretically, it could happen at the moment of your birth...or conception. Actually, it could happen at any time. It's a question to which I hope we'll never learn the answer.
There's no way of knowing.
Professor, if something does go wrong tonight... if I don't get my parents back together... when do you think I'd cease to exist?
It'll be fine, Marty. You'll be fine. Good luck. He stuck his hand out and Marty shook it. But there was still a question that was nagging at him...
That's just what I needed to hear.
Look, Marty, she's not your mother yet. And if you don't go through with this, she may never be. I know it's hard, but there are some things we must do in life that are unpleasant. Some choices must be made that are difficult. Nonetheless, we must make them. Besides, this may be more than a simple question of your own existence, he added. The fate of the entire space-time continuum may rest on your shoulders . Marty tried to smile at him.
That's exactly what I said! I mean, a guy and his mother -- that's illegal, isn't it?
Nobody said anything about hitting her! You're just going to take a few liberties with her.
Look. I'm a little worried about this -- this whole thing with my mother, he admitted to the Professor. I mean, I don't know if I can do it -- I mean, hitting on my own mother, that's pretty heavy.
Good. Professor Brown tested the tarp, noting in satisfaction that it was secure. I'll pick you up in front of the school at midnight. Don't be late -- we're cutting it close as it is. We've got a long drive ahead of us.
That's all taken care of.
In a manner of speaking, yes. And because of that, she's no longer interested in your father.
Are you trying to tell me that my mother's got the hots for me?
Apparently, what has happened is that the maternal instinct has transcended the gap of time and this has caused an alteration in your mother's emotional behavior.
But why? Why would she do that? She's supposed to marry the guy!
My guess is that she turned him down.
But that's impossible!! George asked her out! He had to! I saw him walk her home! Oh, God!
Your 'mother' wanted me to tell you that she was very impressed by what you did this afternoon, and that if you were interested in going to the dance Saturday, she's available.
Believe me, Professor, running around on a nuclear test site can't be any more dangerous than what I've been doing.
The test is this Monday! 15 megatons... Let's see, we need 4200 rads... You'd have to be...exactly 800 yards from ground zero... You realize that what we're going to do could be extremely dangerous.
I brought it with me from 1982. It's from my science book.
Where did you get this?
You better make sure your old man asks her out, because if he doesn't, they may never have a first date. And if they don't have a first date, they won't have a second date. If they don't have a second date, they won't fall in love. If they don't fall in love, they won't get married, and if they don't get married, you'll never be born!
Look, it's not a big deal! I can fix it! All I gotta do is get 'em together and make sure my old man asks her out!
You did what?!?
Curious... Very curious....
Well, it was there.
I don't recall ever seeing it before.
Oh -- that -- I found it in the closet.
Say, where did this guitar come from?
You forget -- time travel is instantaneous. The time machine would melt, but you would have already travelled through time. Of course, it's a moot point regardless. The only place atomic bombs are detonated is at the Army's Nevada Test Site, and those tests are kept absolutely top secret.
You're talking crazy! An atomic blast would melt me and the time machine in a matter of seconds!
I am serious. If we could get you, the time machine, and the power converter in the vicinity of an atomic blast, we could send you back to the future.
Professor, be serious, would you?
An atomic bomb.
Okay, Professor, I get where you're coming from. The way I look, the way I'm dressed... I'd stick out like a sore thumb.
Let me put it on a level you can understand. You don't belong here. You don't know anything about this world. You don't know the customs, you don't know how to talk, how to act -- you don't even look like you belong here. And if you walked out on the street, you wouldn't get 100 yards without being arrested. Then there would be questions, and where would we come up with the answers?
I don't know, but I don't want to take any chances! Now you stay here and don't do anything. Don't answer the door, don't answer the phone, don't go outside. Understand?
Hey, look, gimme a break! All I did was answer the door! How's that gonna change history?
Then I would have figured out to get back in through the events in the natural course of history! Don't you understand? The fabric of history is very delicate. Anything you do could have serious consequences!
What if you lost your keys?
I told you not to interfere with any of the events of this time! Nobody's supposed to see you here! What if I was a mailman? Or a salesman?
You were ringing the doorbell!
You answered the door!
That's just great!
4200 rads... That certainly can't be generated under controlled conditions in this day and age.
Professor. Well, not exactly, Professor. You see, we don't point it at the sun.
Just a guess. I figured kids would still be drinking Coke in 1982.
How did you know?
Blast it -- no, I suppose you're right.... You do know the proper chemical formula?
Well, Professor, are you sure you want me to tell you? You know, changing the course of history and all....
Of course! The power converter! It works! Of course, it works... What chemicals do we use?
The power converter...
On second thought, there may be some things you'll have to tell me.
Oh. That expression probably hasn't been invented yet... I can get behind -- I agree with you.
No! Don't tell me! I don't want to know the future! My knowledge of future events... your mere presence here... could have devastating effects on the course of history. And altering history is a responsibility that I do not wish to bear. My immediate response is to send you back to your own time.
You didn't, Professor. It was an accident! You see, what happened --
You've convinced me that you must be who you say you are. No living human has ever seen this machine. But why? Why even in my twilight years would I remotely consider sending someone back in time?
Yeah, a shopping mall. You know, a shopping mall?
Well, there's a mall here now -- I mean, there will be.
Must have been? Used to live? I do live here.
Jeez -- this is where you used to live, huh? You must have been rich!
Uh, Marty Lewis! I almost didn't recognize him -- haven't seen him in years.
He will be. Simple inebriation, is all. The young man must have a rather low tolerance for alcohol... something that runs in the family. You see, he's a second cousin of mine on my mother's side. Came quite a distance to visit me, he added. His name's Lewis.
Professor, you time machine works! It works! It sent me back in time! I'm from 1982!
You know me?
Professor? Professor Brown?
Sure, he agreed quickly.
The future, Marty, the future is everything! I built this machine to see the future. So I am going to send Shemp twenty-four hours into the future. You can assist me, if you like.
All I know is you're throwing away an awful lot of money.
Don't you understand? The mere act of sending matter back in time would change the course of events, and changing history is a responsibility that I do not wish to bear.
So what? We'd be rich!
Marty, that would alter history.
Sure! Listen -- we take the racing results from today's paper...
A gold mine?
Professor, can this thing send Shemp back in time?
Of course. Shemp is unaware that anything even happened, other than his stool suddenly falling over. We had to wait two minutes to catch up to him, but for Shemp the trip was instantaneous.
Is Shemp all right?
Exactly two minutes difference... and it's still ticking!
The plutonium! That's what I came over here for! Professor, where did you get that stuff?
A time machine! Because of that Coke?!
Now hold on a minute, Professor! Hold the phone. Are you trying to tell me that this -- all of this here -- that this is -- it's a -- a --
Shemp is right here in this room...two minutes from now, and at exactly 9:02PM, we'll catch up to him.
The future? What are you talking about? Where's Shemp?!
The appropriate question to ask is when the hell is he! You see, Shemp has just become the world's first time traveller. I've sent Shemp into the future -- two minutes into the future to be exact.
Then where the hell is he?
No, Marty. Shemp's molecular structure is completely intact!
Get behind the shield! I'm about to release radiation!
But Professor --
...To be traveled through
Catch you later!
Jeez, for a guy with a ton of clocks, you sure don't pay much attention to time.
Oh, right, right...
Pro, the sun's out!
AM or PM?
Oh -- Marty -- what time did you say it was?
Nope. The way I figure it, doors are made to be opened. See you after school.
Did you ever consider that some doors are locked for a reason?
A 35mm film chain... I'll see what I can do....
That reminds me, if we could scrape up enough for a 35 film chain, I've got a connection with a projectionist in a first run house -- we could be sellin' new movies on the street before they're even in the theater.
The power of a million hydrogen bombs! ...and we get twenty four measly volts. It's not fair! I've been working on this power converter since 1949, and you'd think in all that time, I could find the right chemicals that would efficiently convert radiation into electric energy! But no! Thirty three years of dedication and research, and all I've got to show for it is a bootleg video operation!
Professor Brown! It's almost eight thirty -- I'm outta here!
Dick Wilson? Dickie Wilson? Dickie Wilson runs this place? That's a laugh!
What happened to Dick Wilson?
I run this place!
Now who's being stupid? The guy who runs this place.
Dick? Dick who?
Look, maybe I'd better talk to Dick. Is he around?
Sweet and what? Maybe you'd better pay for this first.
Uh, yeah... Gimme a Tab.
What did you do to yours?
What did you do to your hair?
Is something going to happen Saturday night?
Hell no! The way my mom carries on about sex -- you even mention the word and she goes into cardiac arrest. You shoulda seen her face when I told her we were gonna stay up all night Saturday, he added. Always afraid something is going to happen.
Me neither. I've always wondered whether they slept together before they got married. You think yours did?
Can you imagine your parents in bed together?
Yeah... Jesus! I wonder how he ever got up enough nerve to marry my mom.
No self confidence, I guess... At least you don't take after him.
...He just lets himself get pushed around all the time! People walk all over him and he never fights back, never stands up for himself.
You expect me to believe that?
You promise to stay down there for an hour?
You don't mind?
Nah, skip that... I'm going to have to keep an eye on you, though.
Can't afford to take chances.
What's going on?
No... You go in there, I'll have to kill you.
Yeah, he said for you to give us a lift into town. You're the ones with the Studebaker, aren't you?
He said not to tell.
Well, he's gone.
Hi. where's Cato?
I'll catch up with you.
Kit... Maybe I'd better get a shovel.
No, he showed me one.
That's what he told you, huh?
She plays the clarinet, too.
Yeah, I guess.
They come with the house.
Where'd you get them antlers?
Well, I don't notice us hustling trash, either.
Running this place for a fella in town. Nothing much to speak of.
What you been doing?
How you doing, Cato?
What do you mean?
He never bit me.
Does he bite?
Oh, flies... grasshoppers when I can catch 'em.
What do you feed him?
That your spider in there? In that bottle?
Kind of round, like so... Gold. I'll show you if you want.
What'd they look like?
Sometimes. The other day, though, an old boy was plowing in the field over there, found some old Spanish coins.
Don't you ever get bored around here?
I can't think of anything at the moment... I'd like you to write me out a slip, though, proving I came down here.
What kind of work do you think you would be qualified for?
Wouldn't be here if I hadn't.
You lost that one?
I used to throw trash for the City.
You ever held another job before?
I know you do. Good luck to you, too.
I mean it.
Good luck to you.
Holly's over here, Kit, if you want to see her.
Sure thing. Come on.
Well, I've got to read them first. Suppose I could get a Coke while I do?
I need to get your signature on some papers here, Kit.
Hey, listen, Tom, I don't mean to tell you how to run your show here but these cuffs are pinching. What do you say now?
I don't know. Always wanted to be a criminal, I guess. Just not this big a one... Takes all kinds though.
Then why'd you do it?
You like people?
Kit... Kit, I've got a question for you.
You ever had to open it up like that before?
Thirty aught six.
Say, what kind of rifle was that you were shooting at me?
You better not leave that Cadillac sitting out here.
We did it, Ray.
Long as my ammo held out... Right there's where you caught me.
Cause I can't allow it.
Yeah? Why not?
No, you're not either.
For coming onto my property... With a gun.
Well, I got it all planned... and I'm taking Holly off with me.
What do you think you're doing? Go on, get out of here.
I've got a gun here, sir. It's always a good idea to have one around.
What're you doing?
She'd get along okay. And if she didn't, well, she could take off, just take off, I wouldn't mind... I'd always tell people I deserved it.
Well, it's not good enough. Just what do you think would happen to her if she stuck around with you, Kit? Guy like you.
Listen. I got a lot of respect for her, sir. That's about as good a one as I know to tell you.
Is that right?
You know, before I met her, nobody could ask me how I was doing with my girl. Matter of fact, I didn't really have one.
I wasn't aware there was any law against it.
What'd you come out here for?
Sure is pretty.
Well, I've felt that way, hadn't you?
Yeah. I can imagine.
I've got to stick by Kit... He feels trapped.
I don't know.
You love him?
What's your friend's name?
You have to ask Kit. He says frog, I jump.
What's going to happen to Jack and me?
We're going to have to sit down, and talk about that sometime.
Course it's too bad about your dad.
I just don't want to go.
Have you got a better idea?
He's not coming to take us for a ride, either. Come on, let's make a run for the car.
Boy. I had a feeling today was going to be the day... Helicopter.
You smoke Pall Mall?
Well. I'm not going to let that stop me.
You know... they'd probably ask to see your driver's license before they hired you.
I'm sorry. I wasn't listening.
Nothing... I was just running off at the mouth... as usual.
Well, I shouldn't expect miracles, should I?
Never mind. It doesn't matter... If I'm worth a damn, I'll pick the right direction. And if I'm not, well, I don't care. See what I mean?
How about over here?
Well, maybe the slope here is throwing it off some. We ought to find a more flat place.
Well, maybe we oughta be stuck here. I'm not saying that I know.
Yeah, then we'd be stuck here.
I could've pulled the car up on the tracks, slowed it down some.
It was going too fast.
Maybe we should've tried to hop it.
Everybody loves trout.
Well, I'll catch you a big trout. Soon as we get to the mountains.
Well, I feel kind of like an animal living out here. I mean, there's no place to bathe and... no place to get anything good to eat.
Why not? I mean, I'm having fun... At least I'm not bitching.
I never been to Montana... Acquaintance of mine has, but I hadn't... Never had any reason to.
That's Montana over there.
"Rumor: Frank Sinatra and Rita Hayworth are in love... Fact: True, but not with each other."
I don't blame him.
"Rumor: Pat Boone is seriously considering giving up his career so he can return to school full-time and complete his education. Fact: Pat has told intimates that so long as things are going well for his career, it's the education that will have to take the back seat."
Soon as I start the car... and fix my hat.
I'd like to get out of here.
Guess there's no way I'll ever know. For sure.
Anybody ever done that to you before?
Well, why you always walking behind me?
Hey, why're you always walking ahead of me?
Later we found out she was deaf and we hadn't even known it.
Well, we'll see about that... Hey, lookie.
I don't want a steak.
Yeah, you look tired... Listen, honey. when all this is over, I'm going to sit down and buy you a big, thick steak.
Just to keep him out of the sun.
What'd you put him in there for?
Well, I'm not going down there and look.
I don't know.
Think I got 'em?
Whatcha looking in there for? We can't afford any of that.
He didn't say anything to me about it.
Is he upset?
I got him in the stomach.
How's he doing?
Look at all this junk.
Put that down. It's dirty.
I found a lid. It was laying on the ground over there.
He was nervous.
"The Kon-Tiki in motion was a little different from what it usually was in such conditions. We had become sensitive to changes in the rhythm of the logs. I thought at once of suction from the coast, which was drawing near, and was continually out on the deck and up the mast..."
Yeah, me too.
I'm fine. Kind of tired.
How you doing?
Wouldn't be funny... Listen, I'll be back in a while.
Suppose the neighbors heard the noise?
They're not going to listen to me. You either. Are you kidding?
You said that once already... Too late now.
Listen, maybe we ought to tell somebody about this.
You don't believe me, see for yourself.
Are you sure?
Well... I don't think that'd work.
We better call the doctor... Listen. I'll say how it happened, part I saw.
I can look and see.
How bad off is he?
I came in the front.
Okay, but I'm going to keep it for a souvenir...
Don't call me stupid.
Well, that's the point, stupid.
But it would hurt.
That we should crunch our hands with this stone. That way we'd never forget what happened today.
You know what I think?
Don't ask me.
Gosh, what was everybody talking about?
Is that all there is to it?
Did it go the way it 'uz supposed to?
Kids eat that kind of stuff in Korea.
I don't care.
Somebody else is going to get it.
There's an old Fudgesicle over there. You want it?
My stomach's growling.
It's your play.
And the flowers... Let's not pick them. They're so nice.
Yeah, the tree makes it nice.
What a nice place.
Can I come around and see you tomorrow?
Just don't... I've got a headache.
Yeah, but I don't like it.
Anybody ever call you "Red"?
You're a redhead.
Bring it along.
Well, I got homework.
You want to go for a ride?
I don't know.
Yeah, well, I'm going to work as a cowboy now... Or thinking about it. It's a routine, like anything. What do you think?
Something mi trabajo.
How do you say "Quit my Job" in Spanish?
Just seemed like the right move... Whatcha doing?
Quit my job.
Well, stop the world.
Well, I mean there's nothing he wants to know about it... I've got to run.
There you go.
Now what's he know about garbage, huh?
He'll say that?
Well, that I shouldn't be seen with anybody that collects garbage.
Can I be honest?
Well, I know what my daddy's going to say.
Hey, wait a minute. When am I going to see you again?
That's my father. I got to run.
Well, I don't mind getting up early, so I got a job throwing garbage... I'm not in love with the stuff, okay.
Nah, I got me a job.
You still in school?
Well, nobody asked me what I thought. They just hung it on me.
Oh, incidentally, my last name is Carruthers. Sounds a little too much like "druthers", doesn't it?
Well. I got some stuff to say. Guess I'm kind of lucky that way. Most people don't have anything on their minds, do they?
Listen, Holly, you want to take a walk with me?
Well, I was just messing around over there, thought I'd come over and say hello to you. I'll try anything once. What's your name? I said mine.
Hi, I'm Kit. I'm not keeping you from anything important, am I?
Well, I'd like to leave a message, if that's okay.
Well, he didn't have it last night.
No, of course not. It's only that he called last night and asked if I could come by.
Yeah. I'd invite you inside, except it's contagious. Don't want to start an epidemic.
Yeah, but the thing about him, he's down with the flu. He's sick.
Hi... ah, Mister Scarborough here?
Okay, no monkey business then.
You're my friend, aren't you?
Don't worry, I won't let her drive.
Listen, ah... We're going to take the Cadillac for a while. How'd that be?
Good a way to kill time as any... She okay?
Hi, whatcha doing?
Stay as long as you like.
Good deal... Oh, uh, we're on the run and we'd like to hang out here for a while. Couple of hours, maybe. How'd that be?
Sorry to barge in on you. Anybody else here besides you two?
This your place?
Just gimme a chance.
Okay, friend. Start running.
Name is Carruthers. Believe I shoot people every now and then. Not that I deserve a medal.
Who are you?
Well, listen. I'm going to swap you my Cadillac.
It's mine all right.
You didn't walk out here.
Just a second now. That's your truck. isn't it?
Well, matter of fact, I don't have any.
See, we're about out... been driving all night. Actually, I don't even have time to explain it to you.
Well. I'm sorry, sir, but we've got to ask you for it.
Morning... Say, you got any gas?
Wanta sue me?
You tossed my hat out the window.
Think I'll take the juice?
I could've held off an army if I could've gotten behind a rock in the mountains.
Hold it right there.
Then that's it!
Halloween. 1938..."War of the Worlds"...that fake radio news broadcast that got everybody scared, thinking that real live Martians were landing in Grover's Mill, New Jersey! But then it all just turned out to be a hoax.
You mean the guy from the old wine commercials?
November 1, thirty days have September, April, June, and November...when short February's done, all the rest have thirty-one. October 31st! Halloween! Don't you get it? Orson Welles!
Forty-six Yoyodyne employees. Grover's Mill, New Jersey, 11/1/38.
All these people applied for drivers' licenses in the same town in New Jersey on the exact same date.
So we'll help. Let's get crackin'!
They're stealing my chopper!
There's another one we owe 'em.
Rawhide, go find out how Professor Hikita's coming with that formula. Mrs. Johnson, take Casper and Scooter, gas up the Jet Car.
Not me. No way.
You wanna take the chance, Casper?
She gotta be kiddin', right? Vaporize the whole damn planet--?
Nothing to apologize for, Casper. You've gone beyond the call of duty tonight. Mind if I get on the horn and radio the Cavaliers--? They'll be worried.
Forgive the butterfingers, Buckaroo. Casper Lindley, Knight of the Blue Shield, at your disposal. And my son, Scooter.
There's a Harley behind those bushes. Get back to the laboratory and start working on the formula. We don't have time to ask questions. Just synthesize it-
Arachtoids. From Planet Ten.
Antidote to what? Whose disguises?
It's an antidote. A formula. Whoever it was on the phone made me scribble this and gave me the ability to penetrate their disguises.
It's your hand, Buckaroo.
Ever since that phony phone call from the President. Look at this. What is it?
I'm a giant semi-conductor, and there's alien creatures all around us. Form the Eighth Dimension, I think. Look...
Careful...don't make noise and don't touch me. I'm hotter than flapjacks.
Buckaroo! What the Sam Hill!
Which we all know are the forces that tend to pull objects part, right, professor?
We at the Banzai Institute have at last found that way: an alternating gradient synchronizer that softens solid matter by attenuating its electroweak forces!
I'm assigning a couple Blue Shields to protect you around the clock, just in case.
Rawhide tells me Dr. Lizardo escaped...
Buckaroo, I've done an advanced spectrograph analysis on the specimen you pulled off the Jet Car drive shaft.
Smells fermented. Check in with the Institute, Reno, see if everything's kosher.
The creatures? They attacked you? They tried to possess you?
See 'em? They about had me and the whole damn car for breakfast. Broke my windshield...
Sure do pack a mean wallop...let's go...
We will, old fried, we will.
So I was right. That's nice to know...
Just 'grazed' you, huh?
You're a welcome sight...
Yeah. Just grazed me. The Professor's under the floor too...with the Overthruster...
Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems? You think they're mixed up in this?
I think I'm on to something. You and the guys go back to the house and dig up everything you can on an outfit called Yoyodyne.
The deuce you say. That crate!
Buckaroo, somebody shanghaied the Professor!
That's me. I've been ionized, but I'm okay. I'm, switching on the homing beacon, mark two minute intervals.
And try the President's private number at the hospital. Make sure this is on the level. We're busy people here.
Go back to the bus and reroute the call.
He went on a senseless crime spree, killed a cop during a bank robbery, got caught and judged insane. The professor told us they threw away the key.
And his soul black as the Ace of Spades.
The professor and Dr. Emilio Lizardo were actually the first to discover the Eighth Dimension. Almost fifty years ago. Before Buckaroo's parents even knew each other. But there was trouble, a rocket catapult failed and Dr. Lizardo got sucked half in, half out...when they hauled him back ,he wasn't the same guy. His hair was orange...
First thing I did.
Have you warned Professor Hikita?
Dr. Lizardo's a raving lunatic, Perfect Tommy, a vicious psychopath with crazy eyes and flaming orange hair that once upon a time was mousy brown like yours.
Vanished. Thin air.
Same one you had yesterday?
Got a half a tuna sandwich.
I'm starving...somebody, help.
New Jersey brought her back to the bus through heavy fire. Quite a guy if you want my opinion.
All accounted for? Where's Penny?
Whorfin? Does he know we're coming?
It's Whorfin, Buckaroo. Line 3.
Where's the professor?
Sam's dead! Someone broke into the Jet Car! And things are going haywire over at the lab...
What is it, Tommy?
It? Who does?
It wouldn't tell us the whole story until you got here. It wasn't to talk to the head honcho.
Yeah, but most of 'em blasted in through the Eighth Dimension in 1938 at Grover's Mills, New Jersey...
Planet 10? The same Planet 10 you postulated beyond Pluto, Perfect Tommy? The invisible body?
Let her out? She's a killer.
Let her out. In my custody.
Running a little late, Buckaroo.
I'm sure we'll find out soon enough.
Hey, any lock can be picked. So what's he up to?
I look great. Let's rock 'n' roll.
Everybody ready? How do we look? Do we look okay?
She wants a picture.
Not really. This is pretty important.
Buckaroo, you got a minute--?
Who put this dirty picture in Buckaroo's viewer?
Anybody we know?
Now, Buckaroo Banzai?
Pull up! We did it! Holy shit, we did it! Pull up!
Boy, I hope so, Buckaroo Banzai.
Does this thing have guns, John Parker?
At least tell them I'm trying! Tell 'em something--!
I lack the authority, Buckaroo Banzai.
The door's locked.
We're going down! Onto the runway!
Don't look at me, Buckaroo Banzai. I failed flight school.
What is this thing? A fighter?
They will never surrender. They will fight to the end.
These antidote filters the Professor's whipped up will let you to see them like I have since yesterday, as arachtoidal creatures. They won't be pretty, nothing personal, John Parker. But just remember...if we fail tonight, there's no tomorrow.
And ask the American taxpayer to foot the bill? No way. Send 'em back to the Eighth Dimension as soon as we find the Overthruster. It wasn't in Penny's purse...so if we have to run this joint upside down and inside out...
Just their side. What're we gonna do with these people? They're illegal aliens, the way I figure, been here forty years, you could throw the book at 'em...
Got a casualty list?
John Parker, tell them we're doing our best. Stall.
They're armed for bear, Buckaroo. Check out those radiation levels.
And they got Penny! Look!
To get my guns.
Where're you goin'?
Stole his body? When Doctor Lizardo's hair turned red and his mind snapped? Of course! What else?
...but he wasn't the real Doctor Lizardo...just this arachtoid creep that stole the good doc's body the year before in the Eighth Dimension when Prof. Hikita's lab exploded...
Orson Wells? What about Doctor Lizardo?
...where there was some kinda giant crash landing, a huge explosion and they fooled Orson Welles into covering it up! And then they founded Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems and hid there for...
What? How do you know that?
They're arachtoids, Buckaroo, from Planet 10!
Figures. Anybody seen my scope?
And there's a two-hundred-dollar deductible we have to eat on that crack in her windshield.
Penny--?! Are you all right?
I'm not worth it, Buckaroo! Forget me!
Sure. I won't hold my breath.
Stay here, I'll be back.
That's just what you would say. This is so unreal. I'm dreaming...
It's too dangerous.
You've got your six guns strapped on. You're ridding off on another adventure? Oh, my God, it's all real...it really is real. I should go with you. Please...
Believe in Penny Priddy?
Yeah...and maybe more important, if you believe in yourself.
What? If we just believe in Buckaroo Banzai?
Please, Penny. You just gotta trust me now. Okay? And don't panic. Because it's gonna be all right.
Go where? Where're you going?
I gotta go. We're on borrowed time.
I gotta be honest with myself and not repress these feelings-I've got mixed emotions-I don't know if I can handle this. Oh, boy...
I wish he was. He's real enough.
Hanoi Shan--? The guy in your comic books. Boss of the World Crime League? Supreme Commander of the Legion of Death? The Pivot of Mystery himself? You're putting me on. He's a cartoon character.
She was murdered by Hanoi Shan on our wedding night.
Yes, I do. Gimme a chance. I'm stronger than you think.
You don't wanna know.
How did she die? I wanna know.
Where's my damn ammo? Nothing is ever where it's supposed to be around here!
Looks like you're the one might go to pieces.
Don't go to pieces. I haven't got time tonight.
She was killed, Penny.
She must've been a bigger fool than me if she ran out on a guy like you...
I'll shoot yours off if I had a gun, you double-dealing Casanova! I thought you liked me for myself. But why should you, huh? A jerk like me.
Open up or I'll shoot it off.
You keep an eye on it.
Who does? It's a crazy mixed-up world. Just do the best you can with what you have...
What? I don't understand you. I don't understand anything anymore.
Adopted. I should have know. Of course. If it was a snake, it'd bit me!
Somewhere. See I was taken away by the Priddies when I was a baby. I was adopted.
I don't know. I always felt like I did, like there was another me...
Did you have family there--? A sister? In Cody?
Which? The one in my throat.
Having a little trouble with that knot, aren't you?
No, I don't.
No. Laramie. Except I was born in Cody. How did you know that? Oh, right, sure, I forgot: you know everything.
Wyoming? Not Cody, by any chance?
The Netherlands. Whew, that's a long way from Wyoming.
I'd turn around, but I'm afraid you'd strangle me.
It's kinda hard this way.
She was the Queen of the Netherlands.
The girl I remind you of.
Was she pretty?
Pretty terrible shot.
You. Like the papers all say.
Who were you really trying to kill last night?
Go away. Let me rot?
I guess 'cause you remind me of someone I once knew, long ago before any of this craziness.
What're you doing here? Why're you looking at me like that?
Everybody okay up here?
Let me go, let me go, you creeps...
My name's, Penny! But who cares?
This song's for Peggy. And all you others out there a little down on your luck.
Do I look like that kinda girl? I lost my room this morning. I don't know where I'm gonna sleep tonight, but I keep going. What the hell else can I do? I've still got my figure, and like this bozo said, as long as there's a sidewalk, I'll always have a job.
He offered you money?
Did I say anything was wrong? I just sponged up a little too much Vat 69, okay? I'm down to my last nickel in this lousy town, I can't get my luggage outta hock 'cause I met this jerk who said he was a record producer when all he had was a record. He offered to set me up for life, and like a fool, well, I...
Nobody's a nobody. Why're you crying? What's wrong?
My name is Penny. Penny Priddy. There I've said it, but it won't mean anything to you. I'm a nobody.
Did you say..."Peggy"?
Penny. I'd rather not reveal my last name or my age.
Somebody get her a mike? Can we manage that? And a spotlight. What's your name?
This is so embarrassing...
Raise your hand...where?
You're quite serious about this, aren't you, Buckaroo. We know each other pretty well, I think.
A thermonuclear holocaust, sir. These creatures from Planet 10 are ready to exploit Soviet-American tensions and get us to blow each other off the face of the earth, sir, if necessary.
...hit Smolensk and precipitate a thermonuclear war, Mr. President.
You're gonna have to repeat that, I think, Buckaroo.
Not too terrific, sir. I apologize for the interruption but something very unusual has reared its ugly head in outer space, and it looks like the Earth's caught in a crossfire.
That which does not kill us makes us stronger, Buckaroo. What's it like out there in the real world?
Hello, Mr. President. How's my favorite patient? Any tenderness?
World Watch One. Direct incoming transmission.
Damn John Whorfin--!
But John Whorfin said kill her.
You look! It's not here!
John Whorfin will kill us!
Not here! No Overthruster!
I have a radio fix...
Where was it, John O'Connor? How far back?
A black thermopod here? On Earth?! Why, John Gomez? Why?
What? A black ship? Where? A black thermopod's been shot down ten miles back.
Should we be on Code Red?
Possible atmospheric condition, sir...solar. It's unusual, but no cause for alarm. Intelligence reports the Soviets are having the same problem.
Jammed--? By who? Whom by?
Still no confirmation either from SAC or Strategic Space Command. They report all surveillance satellite communication jammed.
What's happening with my call to SAC?
No, sir. I think the flint...
Buckaroo, come in...over. How does this damn thing work? Can anybody figure this lighter out?
Better than him.
Perfect Tommy's just threatened by smart women. Can you play that thing?
What's his problem?
Course he's alive. He's Buckaroo Banzai.
Where's Buckaroo? Is he alive?
Government work. Had my own think tank. Got tired of thinking-wanted some action. Seen plenty of it too. So will you if you stick around.
What'd you do before? Can I ask?
Nigh on ten years. Been through a lotta scrapes together.
How long you been riding with Buckaroo, Reno?
Asshole probably got lost.
We're waiting for the Jet Car. Billy's bringing it.
No! Ditto the professor-
Any sign of Buckaroo?
Cause Buckaroo needs me here.
Reno, how's about you take New Jersey's gear, mosey on over to the bus and introduce him to the rest of the hands.
Where do you hail from, Doc?
The name's Reno. This here's Perfect Tommy.
Hey, so was Mr. Wizard.
You're thinking of Mr. Wizard. This guy's an eccentric genius.
Doctor Lizardo. Wasn't he on TV once?
It's Peggy to these eyes. Same nose, same hair. Plus Buckaroo thinks so too or else he wouldn't be ready to go make a fool of himself, right?
Hell they don't. I met my first wife that way.
Pictures don't lie.
Doesn't look anything like her to me.
It's a spittin' image.
I didn't drop 'em.
Pick those up, Reno.
Better see what's keepin' the boss, Reno.
She's just a damn road hugger, Allison. Plus the man can drive.
Now twenty seconds downrange...Perfect Tommy, how on earth is Buckaroo able to keep that thing on the ground?
Bet I do.
Bet you say that to all the girls, Perfect Tommy.
That's why I wear a fifty dollar hat. Was a two hundred dollar hat, I hadda kill you.
Flying to Cambodia.
Unscheduled surgery. He'll be waltzing along momentarily. What're you doing tonight?
Whadda you need Buckaroo for?
So where's Buckaroo?
I'll bet. Jesus  "The grand productive days." What a goddamn phony.
And my input was mostly... EDITORIAL, really, when he'd been drinking-
Barton, honestly, only the last couple-
I want to know!
I want to know how many of Bill's books you wrote!
Barton, I think we should concentrate on OUR little project-
What do you mean so to speak?! Audrey, how long have you been his... secretary?
Well, Bill was ALWAYS the author, so to speak-
Before Bill came to Hollywood.
You wrote Bill's scripts! Jesus Christ, you wrote his  what about before that?
Well, the basic ideas were frequently his-
You wrote his scripts for him?
Well, usually, they're... simply morality tales. There's a good wrestler, and a bad wrestler whom he confronts at the end. In between, the good wrestler has a love interest or a child he has to protect. Bill would usually make the good wrestler a backwoods type, or a convict. And sometimes, instead of a waif, he'd have the wrestler protecting an idiot manchild. The studio always hated that. Oh, some of the scripts were so... spirited!
What are they like? What are they about?
Yes, I'm afraid I have.
No, but the whole goddamn  Audrey? Have you ever had to read any of Bill's wrestling scenarios?
It's alright, Barton. You don't have to write actual scenes?
Well I have to come up with  an outline, I'd guess you call it. The story. The whole goddamn story. Soup to nuts. Three acts. The whole goddamn-
Oh, he's... he drifted off. He'll sleep for a while now. What is it you have to do, exactly?
Yes. Thank you. How's Bill?
Now that's all right, Barton. Everything'll be all right.
Audrey, thank you for coming. Thank you. I'm sorry to be such a... such a... Thank you.
If I can. He gets jealous; he-
If you could, I'd 
Barton. I'm sorry, it's Barton Fink.
...Who is this?
Audrey, listen, I need help. I know it's late and I shouldn't be calling you like this  believe me I wouldn't have if I could see any other alternative, but I  I'm sorry - listen, how are you  I'm sorry. You doing okay?
Pick it up... Pick it up. Pick it-
What. What don't I understand?
Barton. Empathy requires... understanding.
Okay, but that doesn't excuse his 
He'll wander back when he's sober and apologize. He always does.
...Well that doesn't excuse his behavior.
No, sometimes he just... well, he thinks about Estelle. His wife still lives in Fayettesville. She's... disturbed.
What?! He's a son of a bitch!
...Oh Barton, I feel so... sorry for him!
That son of a bitch... Don't get me wrong, he's a fine writer.
Let him go.
No, no 
...I know this must look... funny.
Barton. You see, Barton, I'm not just Bill's secretary  Bill and I are... I love. We-
Perhaps the three of us, Mr. Fink.
Perhaps you and I could get together at some point also. I'm sorry if that sounds abrupt. I just... I don't know anyone here in this town.
I'll tell Bill you dropped by. I'm sure he'll want to reschedule your appointment.
Yes I am. I'm working on a wres  please call me Barton.
I'll be fine... Are you a writer, Mr Fink?
How about you? Will you be alright?
I am sorry, it's so embarassing.
He will be... When he can't write, he drinks.
Is, uh... Is he okay?
Hesh up! Be still now! DROWN 'EM! DROWN 'EM! DROWN 
I'll try to slip out. If he quiets down, passes out... I'm afraid he thinks  well, he said you were a buffoon, Barton. He becomes irrational
Who is that?! Gaddamn voices come into the house... sons of bitches...
All right Barton, I'll see if I can slip away-
Drown all those rascals...
Barton, I'm afraid it's not a good time-
Stop it, Bill!
Am I? Maybe to a schoolboy's eye. People who know about the human heart, though, mebbe they'd say, Bill over here, he gives his honey love, and she pays him back with pity  the basest coin there is.
Not anything, Bill. Don't test me.
M'honey pretends to be impatient with me, Barton, but she'll put up with anything.
So now I'm s'posed to roll over like an ol' bitch dog gettin' ger belly scratched.
That doesn't help anything, Bill.
...This'll sometimes help.
Well, m'olfactory's turnin' womanish on me  lyin' and deceitful...
That's hamburger grease, Bill.
If I close m'eyes I can almost smell the live oak.
Garland, it's me.
Chet! From downstairs!
...Who is this?
How d'ya like your room!
All right, forget the heads. Where's Mundt, Fink?
Could you come back later? It's just... too hot... My head is killing me.
He... I'm trying to think... Nothing, really... He... He said he liked Jack Oakie pictures.
Well that's what he said.
Nothing, really. Said he was in the insurance business.
So. You talked to Mundt, what about?
...No. I never saw him with anyone else.
Yeah, he's funny that way.
...Once or twice. His name is Charlie Meadows.
Ever talk to him?
A week, eight, nine days 
How long you been up there, Fink?
I  I've got respect for  for working guys, like you 
What DID you mean?
No, I  I didn't mean to sound 
Well as a matter of fact, I write for the pictures.
Oh yeah? What kind of write?
I need help, Audrey.
Goddamn voices... DROWN 'EM!
I said drown 'em all! Who is that?
I'm sorry, I just feel like I know I shouldn't ask, I just need some kind of help, I just, I have a deadline tomorrow-
Are you all right?
I'll jus' walk on down to the Pacific, and from there I'll... improvise.
I'm buildin' a levee. Gulp by gulp, brick by brick. Raisin' up a levee to keep that ragin' river of manure from lappin' at m'door.
No son, thisahere moonshine's got nothin' to do with shuttin' folks out. No, I'm usin' it to build somethin'.
I don't know exactly. But I do know what you're doing with that drink. You're cutting yourself off from your gift, and from me and Audrey, and from your fellow man, and from everything your art is about.
And what would that be, son?
Look, maybe it's none of my business, but a man with your talent  don't you think your first obligation would be to your gift? Shouldn't you be doing whatever you have to do to work again?
Mmm. Wal, me, I just enjoy maikn' things up. Yessir. Escape... It's when I can't write, can't escape m'self, that I want to tear m'head off and run screamin' down the street with m'balls in a fruitpickers pail. Mm...
...No, I've always found that writing comes from a great inner pain. Maybe it's a pain that comes from a realization that one must do something for one's fellow man  to help somehow to ease his suffering. Maybe it's a personal pain. At any rate, I don't believe good work is possible without it.
Well... actually, no Bill...
...Still, I must say. I haven't felt peace like this since the grand productive days. Don't you find it so, Barton? Ain't writin' peace?
So be it.
It's still a little early for me.
...A little social lubricant, Mistuh Fink?
All of us undomesticated writers eventually make their way out here to the Great Salt Lick. Mebbe that's why I allus have such a powerful thrust.
Sir, I'm flattered that you even recognize my name. My God, I had no idea you were in Hollywood.
Just Bill, please.
W.P. Mayhew? The writer?
I beg your pardon?
Well what do I tell him?
Who said write? Jesus, Jack can't read. You gotta TELL it to him-tell him SOMEthing for Chrissake.
I can't write anything by tomorrow.
Well he's taken an interest! That means he'll make your life hell, which I could care less about, but since I drew the short straw to supervise this turkey, he's gonna be all over me too! Fat-assed sonofabitch called me yesterday to ask how it's going  don't worry, I covered for you. Told him you were making progress and we were all very excited. I told him it was great, so now MY ass is on the line. He wants you to tell him all about it tomorrow.
I didn't say anything-
Are you deaf, he LIKES you! He's taken an interest! What the hell did you say to him?
I don't understand-
You thought! Where'd you get THAT from? You thought! I don't know what the hell you said to Lipnik, but the sonofabitch LIKES you! You understand that, Fink? He LIKES you! He's taken an interest. NEVER make Lipnik like you. NEVER!
But... I thought no one cared about this picture.
Souse! Souse! He manages to write his name on the back of his paycheck every week!
You don't understand. He's in pain, because he can't write-
He's a great writer 
Bill Mayhew! Some help! The guy's a souse!
Well, I've talked to Bill Mayhew-
Understand shit! I though you were gonna consult another writer on this!
I'm afraid I don't really understand that genre. maybe that's the prob-
What do you think this is? HAMLET? GONE WITH THE WIND? RUGGLES OF RED GAP? It's a goddamn B picture! Big men in tights! You know the drill!
Well not much.
Getting STARTED! Christ Jesus! Started?! You mean you don't have ANYthing?!
Well, to tell you the truth, I'm having some trouble getting started
On the Beery picture! Where are we? Wuddya got?
Like hell it is; there are no mosquitos in Los Angeles. Mosquitos breed in swamps  this is a desert town. Wuddya got for me?
Nothing. It's just a mosquito bite.
Wuddya got for me  what the hell happened to your face?
...Look, you're confused? You need guidance? Talk to another writer.
Wallace Beery. Wrestling picture. What do you need, a road map?
Okay. I'm just having trouble getting started. It's funny, I'm blocked up. I feel like I need some kind of indication of... what's expected 
Sure he did. And he forgot about it before your ass left his sofa.
But Lipnik said he wanted to look at the script, see something by the end of the week.
Don't worry about it. It's just a B picture. I bring it in on budget, they'll book it without even screening it. Life is too short.
Then who should I talk to?
What!? Ted Okum doesn't know shit. They've assigned me enough pictures for a goddamn year. What Ted Okum doesn't know you could almost squeeze into the Hollywood Bowl.
I'm a writer. Ted Okum said you're producing this Wallace Beery picture I'm working on.
Think about it, Fink. Writers come and go; we always need Indians.
I'm a writer. Ted O 
We need Indians for a Norman Steele western.
...Huh? No, I'm 
I'm a writer, Mr. Geisler. Ted Okum said I should drop by morning to see you about the 
Well, you just... sound a little
Sound a little what?
Well, I'm just asking. You sound a little 
Yes... Isn't it?
...Barton, is everything okay?
Have you read the Bible, Garland?
Very important, Garland. I just thought you should know that. Whatever happens.
Well, I'm... glad to hear that 
Not big in the sense of large  although it's that too. I mean important. This may be the most IMPORTANT work I've done.
What do you mean, Barton?
It's about what I'm writing, Garland. It's really... I think it's really big.
Go ahead, son.
I'm fine, garland, but I have to talk with you.
...What is it Barton? Are you okay?
Yeah, I'm fine, Garland  I have to talk to you. I'm calling long distance.
Barton? What time is it? Are you all right?
Take my copy. You're the toast of Broadway and you have the opportunity to redeem that for a little cash  strike that, a lot of cash.
No, what did it say?
...Look, they love you, kid  everybody does. You see Caven's review in the Herald?
Okay Barton, you're the artist, I'm just the ten percenter. You decide what you want and I'll make it happen. I'm only asking that your decision be informed by a little realism  if I can use that word and Hollywood in the same breath.
...I guess I'm sprouting off again. But I am certain of this, Garland: I'm capable of more good work. Maybe better work than I did in Choirs. It just doesn't seem to me that Los Angeles is the place to lead the life of mind.
I'd say you're already enjoying some.
I don't know, Garland; my place is here right now. I feel I'm on the brink of success-
Yes, generally, to see pap. However, point number two: A brief tenure in Hollywood could support you through the writing of any number of plays.
To see pap.
Fair enough. No pressure here, Barton, because I respect you, but let me point out a couple of things. One, here you make a difference to five hundred fifty people a night  if the show sells out. Eighty five million people go to the pictures every week.
I'm not sure anymore. I guess I try to make a difference.
What do you do far a living?
To do what?
We have to talk a little business. I've just been on the phone to Los Angeles. Barton, Capitol Pictures wants to put you under contract. They've offered you a thousand dollars a week. I think I can get them to go as high as two.
Don't panic, I'll join you in a minute. What's you think of Richard and Poppy?
I thought you were going to join us. Jesus, Garland, you left me alone with those people.
Because you DON'T LISTEN!
But Charlie  why me? Why 
I hear it's Mundt. Madman Mundt.
...Don't look at me like that, neighbor. It's just me  Charlie.
Don't worry about that, compadre. I'll be back.
You'll be back?
Well, keep it for me. Maybe it'll bring you good luck. Yeah, it'll help you finish your script. You'll think about me...
It's more than I've got.
Funny, huh, when everything that's important to a guy, everything he wants to keep from a lifetime  when he can fit it into a little box like that. I guess... I guess it's kind of pathetic.
Dammit, don't argue with me. You asked me to believe you  well I do. Now don't argue with me.
Yeah, but Charlie 
You gotta get a grip on, brother. You gotta just carry on  just for a few days, till I get back. Try and stay here, keep your door locked. Don't talk to anyone. We just gotta keep our heads and we'll figure it out.
...I just don't know what... to do
Charlie, I feel like I'm going crazy  like I'm losing my mind. I don't know what to do... I didn't do it, believe me. I'm sure of that, Charlie. I just...
It's okay... It's okay...
Charlie! I've got no one else here! You're the only person I know in Los Angeles...
Everything's okay, believe me. I know it's rough mentally, but everything's taken care of.
Jesus, Charlie, I...
Have to, old timer. Just for a while.
Jesus... You're leaving.
She's dead, Barton! If that was her name.
...Uh-huh... Where's Audrey?
You're in pictures, Barton. Even if you got cleared eventually, this would ruin you.
They GOTTA believe me, Charlie! They gotta have mercy!
Jesus... They can tell that...
I believe you  I KNOW you. But why should the police?
But I didn't do it  don't you believe me?
Stop with the police! Wake up, friend! This does not look good! They hang people for this!
I don't know! Maybe it was her... boyfriend. I passed out. I don't know. Won't the police be able to 
What do you think happened?
Hold on. I said hold on, so hold on.
We gotta call the police 
I believe you, brother, but this don't look good.
I don't know! I woke up, she was... God, you gotta believe me!
Hold on. Stop. Take a deep breath. Tell me what happened.
I didn't do this, I did NOT do this
Hold on 
You gotta believe me 
Hold on 
I've gotta call the police  or you could call for me 
...Jesus, Barton, what the hell is this? What're we gonna do?
Don't worry about it, Barton. We can sort it-
...Will you stay with me till they get here?
Charlie, I'm in trouble  something horrible's happened  I've gotta call the police...
Get a grip on yourself, brother. Whatever the problem is, we'll sort it out.
Charlie, I'm in trouble. You've gotta help me.
Why don't we go to your room-
No... Can I come in?
Barton. Are you all right?
Are you sure 
No!... I'm fine. Thank you.
...Can I come in?
Course not, compadre. You'll see me again.
Don't pick up and leave without saying goodbye.
So they say.
Well, I guess you pick your poison.
This kind of heat. It's pathetic.
What do you mean?
Well it's pathetic, isn't it? I mean to a guy from New York.
...I guess it seems pathetic to a guy like you.
What a dump...
I guess the heat's sweating off the wallpaper.
...Your room does that too?
Well hell, buddy, don't pull a long face! This is still home for me  I keep my room, and I'll be back sooner or later...
I'm truly sorry to hear that, Charlie. I'll miss you.
In a few days. Out to your stompin' grounds as a matter of fact  New York City. Things have gotten all balled up at the Head Office.
Thanks, brother. But the fact is, I gotta pull up stakes temporarily.
And there's hope for you too, Charlie. Tomorrow I bet you sell a half-dozen policies.
Where there's life there's hope.
...Ah, you'll lick this picture business, believe me. You've got a head on your shoulders. What is it they say? Where there's a head, there's a hope?
Seems like I hear everything that goes on in this dump. Pipes or somethin'. I'm just glad I don't have to ply MY trade in the wee-wee hours.
Yeah, but 
Know about it? I can practically see how they're doin' it. Brother, I wish I had a piece of that.
How did you know about that?
Those two love-birds next door drivin' you nuts?
Well, it's been better. I can't seem to get going on this thing. That one idea, the one that lets you get started  I still haven't gotten it. Maybe I only had one idea in me  my play. Maybe once that was done, I was done being a writer. Christ, I feel like a fraud, sitting here staring at this paper.
...Listen to me belly-achin'. As if my problems amounted to a hill of beans. How goes the life of the mind?
Defense against what? Insurance? Something they need? Something they should be thanking me for offering? A little peace of mind?...
Well it's... it's a defense mechanism.
...Did I say rude? People can be goddamn cruel. Especially some of their housewives. Okay, so I've got a weight problem. That's my cross to bear. I dunno...
A little lift, yeah...
Well, my pleasure. I could use a little lift myself.
Jesus, what a day. Felt like I couldn't've sold ice water in the Sahara. Jesus. Okay, so you don't want insurance, so okay, that's your loss. But God, people can be rude. Feel like I have to talk to a normal person like just to restore a little of my...
Seems like nothing but, lately.
Jesus, what a day I've had. Ever had one of those days?
Yeah, as a matter of fact they did. Come on in.
Because that would mean they gave you mine.
I hope these are your shoes.
Well, that's all that wrestling is. Except usually there's more grunting and squirming before the pin. Well, it's your first time. And you're out of your weight class.
It's okay, it's okay.
...All right now, when I say "Ready... wrestle!" you try and pin me, and I try and pin you. That's the whole game. Got it?
Not a bit of it, compadre! Easiest thing in the world! You just get down on your knees to my left, slap your right hand here...
That's all right, really 
...You're a little out of your weight class, but just for purposes of demonstration 
Okay, but hell, you should know what it is. I can show you in about thirty seconds.
Nope, never watched any. I'm not that interested in the act itself 
Beery! You got no beef there! He's good. Hell of an actor  though, for my money, you can't beat Jack Oakie. A stitch, Oakie. Funny stuff, funny stuff. But don't get me wrong  Beery, a wrestling picture, that could be a pip. Wrestled some myself back in school. I guess you know the basic moves.
...Probably sounds a little grand coming from someone who's writing a wrestling picture for Wallace Beery.
Not at all. It's damned interesting.
...This must be boring you.
You know, in a way, I envy you Charlie. Your daily routine  you know what's expected. You know the drill. My job is to plumb the depths, so to speak, dredge something up from inside, something honest. There's no road map for that territory...
...It was taken by one of my policy holders. They're more than just customers to me, Barton. They really appreciate what I have to offer them. Ya see, her hubby was out of town at the time 
Sure, that's tough, but in a sense, we're all alone in this world aren't we Charlie? I'm often surrounded by family and friends, but...
...What's the expression  me myself and I.
Mine have passed on. It's just the three of us now...
My folks live in Brooklyn, with my uncle.
Yeah, the ladies do ask for attention. In my experience, they pretend to give it, but it's generally a smoke- screen for demanding it back  with interest. How about family, Bart? How're you fixed in that department?
No... I guess it's something about my work. I get so worked up over it, I don't know; I don't really have a lot of attention left over, so it would be a little unfair...
...Got a sweetheart?
I myself have yet to be lassoed.
Thanks, I'd invite you over to my place, but it's a goddamn mess. You married, Bart?
No, I guess you're stuck with the one you've got. Have a seat.
Ah, doctors. What's he gonna tell me? Can't trade my head in for a new one.
Seen a doctor?
Oh, yeah. An ear infection, chronic thing. Goes away for a while, but it always comes back. Gotta put cotton in it to staunch the flow of pus. Don't worry, it's not contagious.
Yeah, come in Charlie. Hadn't really gotten started yet  what happened to your ear?
Jesus, I hope I'm not interrupting you again. I heard you walking around in here. Figured I'd drop by.
Charlie. How are you.
See you, Charlie.
...And look, I'm sorry as hell about the interruption. Too much revelry late at night, you forget there are other people in the world.
Well, I can tell you some stories 
Sure, sure Charlie, you can help by just being yourself.
Well, we've got something in common then.
Hell no! Jesus, I'm the kind of guy, I'll let you know if I'm bored. I find it all pretty damned interesting. I'm the kind schmoe who's generally interested in the other guy's point of view.
You're all right, Charlie. I'm glad you stopped by. I'm sorry if  well I know I sometimes run on.
Frequently played, seldom remarked.
Yeah, I guess that's tragedy right there.
Sure you could! And yet many writers do everything in their power to insulate themselves from the common man  from where they live, from where they trade, from where they fight and love and converse and  and  and... so naturally their work suffers, and regresses into empty formalism and  well, I'm spouting off again, but to put it in your language, the theater becomes as phony as a three dollar bill.
And I could tell you some stories 
Exactly, Charlie! You understand what I'm saying  a lot more than some of these literary types. Because you're a real man!
I can feel my butt getting sore already.
Well, I don't mean to get up on my high horse, but why shouldn't we look at ourselves up there? Who cares about the Fifth Earl of Bastrop and Lady Higginbottom and  and  and who killed Nigel Grinch-Gibbons?
I can see you feel pretty strongly about it.
And that's the point, that we all have stories. The hopes and dreams of the common man are as noble as those of any king. It's the stuff of life  why shouldn't it be the stuff of theater? Goddamnit, why should that be a hard pill to swallow? Don't call it new theater, Charlie; call it real theater. Call it our theater.
Hell, I could tell you some stories
...I don't guess this means much to you.
Yeah, I guess it is. But in a way, that's exactly the point. There's a few people in New York  hopefully our numbers are growing  who feel we have an opportunity now to forge something real out of everyday experience, create a theater for the masses that's based on a few simple truths  not on some shopworn abstractions about drama that doesn't hold true today, if they ever did...
Well ain't that a kick in the head!
Well, that's a good question. Strange as it may seem, Charlie, I guess I write about people like you. The average working stiff. The common man.
Caught me trying to be fancy! Yeah, that's it, Bart.
What do I write about?
Hell, why not? Everyone wants quality. What kind of venue, that is to say, thematically, uh...
That's okay, Charlie. I'm a playwright. My shows've only played New York. Last one got a hell of a write-up in the Herald. I guess that's why they wanted me here.
Oh, it's an exciting time then. I'm not the best-read mug on the planet, so I guess it's no surprise I didn't recognize your name. Jesus, I feel like a heel.
That's okay; actually I am just starting out in the movies  though I was pretty well established in New York, some renown there,
...Is the egg showing or what?!
No, I'm actually writing for the pictures now 
What kind of scribbler are you  newspaperman did you say?
Thanks, I'll keep it in mind.
Hell yes. Because I believe in it. Fire, theft, and casualty are not things that only happen to other people  that's what I tell 'em. Writing doesn't work out, you might want to look into it. Providing for basic human need  a fella could do worse.
Doesn't surprise me at all.
...In spite of what you might think from tonight, I'm pretty good at it.
Hell no! Call me Charlie. Well Barton, you might say I sell peace of mind. Insurance is my game  door-to-door, human contact, still the only way to move merchandise.
And what's your line, Mr. Meadows?
Damned difficult, I'd imagine.
Can be. Not easy, but 
You don't say. That's a tough racket. My hat's off to anyone who can make a go of it. Damned interesting work, I'd imagine.
Well, I'm a writer, actually.
What kind of work do you do, Barton, if you don't mind my asking?
That's okay, I assure you. It's just that I was trying to work 
Yeah, just a nip. I feel like hell, all the carryings-on next door.
Okay... a quick one, sure...
... You got a glass? It's the least I can do.
All right, hell, you trying to work and me carrying on in there. Look, the liquor's good, wuddya say?
That's all right, really, thank you.
Neighbor, I'd feel better about the damned inconvenience if you'd let me buy you a drink.
I tried to show you something beautiful. Something about all of US 
You didn't let ME down. Or even Lou. We don't live or die by what you scribble, Fink. You let Ben Geisler down. He liked you. Trusted you. And that's why he's gone. Fired. That guy had a heart as big as the outdoors, and you fucked him. He tried to convince me to fire you too, but that would be too easy. No, you're under contract and you're gonna stay that way. Anything you write will be the property of Capitol Pictures. And Capitol Pictures will not produce anything you write. Not until you grow up a little. You ain't no writer, Fink  you're a goddamn write-off.
I'm sorry if I let you down.
I had to call Beery this morning, let him know we were pushing the picture back. After all I'd told him about quality, about that Barton Fink feeling. How disappointed we were. Wally was heartbroken. The man was devastated. He was  well, I didn't actually call him, Lou did. But that's a fair description, isn't it Lou?
Don't gas me, Fink. If you're opinion mattered, then I guess I'd resign and let YOU run the the studio. It doesn't and you won't, and the lunatics are not going to run THIS particular asylum. So let's put a stop to THAT rumor right now.
With all due respect, sir, I think it's the best work I've done.
...I gotta tell you, Fink. It won't wash.
Anyway, I had Lou read your script for me.
Yes sir, they 
Actually it hasn't officially gone through yet. Had wardrobe whip this up. You gotta pull teeth to get anything done in this town. I can understand a little red tape in peacetime, but now it's all-out warfare against the Japs. Little yellow bastards. They'd love to see me sit this one out.
...I was commissioned yesterday in the Army Reserve. Henry Morgenthau arranged it. He's a dear friend.
Colonel Lipnik, if you don't mind.
Ah, forget it, kid. I want you to pull this out of your head. If that sonofabitch wouldn't apologize to you, goddammit, I will. I respect your artistry and your methods, and if you can't fill us in yet, well hell, we should be kissing your feet for your fine efforts.
Mr. Lipnik, I really would feel much better if you could reconsider 
You don't have to cover for him. It's noble of you, but these things happen in business.
No no, Mr. Breeze has actually been a great help 
I apologize, Barton.
Mr. Lipnik, I 
KISS THIS MAN'S FEET!!
I  Mr. Lipnik 
CAN you? You damn well better be. Jesus, if I hadn't been honest in my business dealings  well, of course, you can't always be honest, not with the sharks swimming around this town  but if you're a writer, you don't think about those things  if I'd been totally honest, I wouldn't be within a mile of this pool  unless I was cleaning it. But that's no reason for you not to be. Honest, I mean. Not cleaning the pool.
...Can I be honest, Mr. Lipnik?
And then... well...
Great! He's poor, this wrestler! He's had to struggle!
...It's a tenement building. On the Lower East Side...
Boy! You writers! Work hard, play hard! That's what I hear, anyway...
Yeah... rye whiskey?
...Well Bart, which is it? Orphan? Dame?
...Yes, thank you.
That's okay, that's okay, that's okay  that's just fine. You probably just walked in here thinking that was going to be a handicap, thinking we wanted people who knew something about the medium, maybe even thinking there was all kind of technical mumbo- jumbo to learn. You were dead wrong. We're only interested in one thing: Can you tell a story, Bart? Can you make us laugh, can you make us cry, can you make us wanna break out in joyous song? Is that more than one thing? Okay. The point is, I run this dump and I don't know the technical mumbo-jumbo. Why do I run it? I've got horse-sense, goddamnit. Showmanship. And also, and I hope Lou told you this, I bigger and meaner than any other kike in this town. Did you tell him that, Lou? And I don't mean my dick's bigger than yours, it's not a sexual thing  although, you're the writer, you would know more about that. Coffee?
To be honest, I don't go to the pictures much, Mr. Lipnik 
Less Hollywood? Sure, say it, it's not a dirty word. Sat whatever the hell you want. The writer is king here at Capitol Pictures. You don't believe me, take a look at your paycheck at the end of every week  that's what we think of the writer. ...so what kind of pictures does he like?
Thanks, but I wanted a place that was less...
Never heard of it. Let's move him to the Grand, or the Wilshire, or hell, he can stay at my place.
I'm at the Earle.
...Where did we put him?
The others are being sent.
...Those your only bags?
Don't you wanna go to your room?!
Okey-dokey, go ahead.
Kitchen closes at eight but I'm the night clerk. I can always ring out for sandwiches.
Well, I'm going to be working here, mostly at night; I'm a writer. Do you have room service?
Rez. That'll be twenty-five fifty a week payable in advance. Checkout time is twelve sharp, only you can forget that on account you're a rez. If you need anything, anything at all, you dial zero on your personal in-room telephone and talk to me. My name is Chet.
I don't know... I mean, I'll be here, uh, indefinitely.
Transient or resident?
...Are you a tranz or a rez?
Okay then, everything seems to be in order. Everything seems to be in order.
F-I-N-K. Fink, Barton. That must be you, huh?
I'm checking in. Barton Fink.
Welcome to the Hotel Earle. May I help you, sir?
You're a sick fuck, Fink.
Sex?! He's a MAN! We WRESTLED!
No kidding, bright boy  we smelt Mundt all over this. Was he the idea man?
Charlie... Charlie's back...
Funny. As in, he likes to ventilate people with a shotgun and then cut their heads off.
What did... What did he 
That's right, Fink, he lives next door to you.
...Yeah, he... he lives next door to me.
Nine days  Tuesday 
Is this multiple choice?
Jesus! Ain't that a load off! You live in 605?
Why's it so goddamn hot out here?
You two have some sick sex thing?
He teach you to do it?
Only fry you once.
Tell us where the heads are, maybe they'll go easy on you.
Give you nose bleeds?
Sixth floor too high for you, Fink?
You didn't tell us you knew the dame.
Second one of your friends to end up dead.
I dunno, Duke. I kinda liked it.
...I thought you said you were a writer.
Fink. That's a Jewish name, isn't it?
Ya see how he's not writing it down?
Ya know, Fink, ordinarily we say anything you might remember could be helpful. But I'll be frank with you: That is not helpful.
No reputable company would hire a guy like that.
Yeah, and he's Buck Rogers.
But, you know, with the head still on.
Female caucasian, thirty years old. Nice tits. No head. You ever see Mundt with anyone meets that description?
Hollywood precinct finds another stiff yesterday. Not too far from here. This one's better looking than the doc.
Good luck with no fuckin' head.
Physician, heal thyself.
Well, some of his throat was there.
All of which he's now missin'.
Doctor. Ear, nose and throat man,.
Couple of days ago we see the same M.O. out in Los Feliz.
Started in Kansas City. Couple of housewives.
He's a little funny in the head.
Also known as Madman Mundt.
His name is Mundt. Karl Mundt.
Yeah, and I'm Buck Rogers.
Would that be good enough for ya?
You want my partner to kiss your ass?
Big fuckin' deal.
What do you do, Fink?
Got a couple questions to ask ya.
Look at "Blood, Sweat, and Canvas". These are big movies, Fink. About big men, in tights  both physically and mentally. But especially physically. We don't put Wallace Beery in some fruity movie about suffering  I thought we were together on that.
"Blood, Sweat, and Canvas".
Hell, I could take you through it step by step, explain why your story stinks, but I won't insult your intelligence. Well all right, first of all: This is a wrestling picture; the audience wants to see action, drama, wrestling, and plenty of it. They don't wanna see a guy wrestling with his soul  well, all right, a little bit, for the critics  but you make it the carrot that wags the dog. Too much of it and they head for exits and I don't blame 'em. There's plenty of poetry right inside that ring, Fink. Look at "Hell Ten Feet Square".
Mr. Lipnik, please 
Get down on your knees, you sonofabitch! Get down on your knees and kiss this man's feet!
This man creates for a living! He puts food on your table and on mine! THANK him for it! Thank him, you ungrateful sonofabitch! Thank him or YOU'RE fired!
Mr. Lipnik, I 
Ah, hell, let Bart take a crack at it. He'll get into the swing of things or I don't know writers. Let's make it a dame, Bart, keep it simple. We don't gotta tackle the world our first time out. The important thing is we all have that Barton Fink feeling, but since you're Barton Fink I'm assuming you have it in spades. Seriously Bart, I like you. We're off to a good start. Dammit, if all our writers were like you I wouldn't have to get so goddamn involved. I'd like to see something by the end of the week.
...Maybe we should do a treatment.
Okay, the hell with the story. Wallace Beery is a wrestler. I wanna know his hopes, his dreams. Naturally, he'll have to get mixed up with a bad element. And a romantic interest. You know the drill. Romantic interest, or else a young kid. An orphan. What do you think, Lou? Wally a little too old for a romantic interest? Look at me, a writer in the room and I'm askin' Lou what the goddamn story should be!
No, not yet Jack. We just bought the story. Saturday Evening Post.
We got a treatment on it yet?
...Thanks Lou. Join us. Join us. Talking about the Wallace Beery picture.
How's about it, Bart?
Mr. Fink hasn't given a preference, Mr. Lipnik.
Who are you guys gonna sell my file to this time?
I want you in Dr. Gardner's office at nine o'clock. You're out of control, Curran.
Going after him before gets you off the hook for killing him that's your alibi.
Come on -- I'm going to storm into his office in front of everybody in the afternoon and then that night I'm going to kill him? I'd have to be really dumb to do that.
What are you gonna do -- charge me with smoking?
There's no smoking in this building.
A couple days ago.
When did you start drinking again?
Yeah, I was drinking.
Were you drinking?
Home. Watching TV.
Where were you tonight?
Do you have any evidence that he showed your psychiatric file to anyone?
Okay. I went after him. I lost my temper.
Bring 1976 up.
Hey, that's Dr. Gardner, isn't it?
It's not gonna take long, Sam.
I can get my butt kicked for this. You're not supposed to be in here.
The boat blew. There was a leak in the gas line. There were two previous repairs. There was a five-mil policy on both of 'em. A real heavy investigation. Zilch. Goose-egg. It was an accident.
You know I'm whacko, Sam, what'd you find?
You're on leave, man. You're on psycho leave. I'm talking to a possible whacko here.
Did you find out about her parents?
Take care, you hear?
She was there, wasn't she?
We got a call from Berkeley P.D. There was a killing. A professor. Icepick. In his bed. Multiple stab wounds. 1977.
Don't! I know about your husband. You still like girls, Beth?
I got a message on my machine to meet Gus here. Where is he?
Put your fucking hands up! Don't move.
Put your hands up!
What are you doing here?
She's evil. She's brilliant. Be careful, Nick.
You should do something about this lock.
I got married. He was on staff at the clinic. I was down in Salinas. It didn't... last long.
Why did you change your name?
She knew you'd find out who Lisa Henderson is. You're a good cop -- what did she do? Tell you casually and make it seem irrelevant? Did she tell you in bed, Nick? That's how I'd do it.
She didn't hand you to me. She doesn't even know who you are. She told me about Lisa Henderson.
She's really sick you know. Don't you know what she's doing? She knows I went to Berkeley. She knows I knew Noah. She makes up that story about me. She's handing you somebody who's obsessed with he her.
You saw all the reports, Beth!
I had him in two classes.
Did you know Noah Goldstein?
I did dye my hair. It didn't have anything to do with her. I was a redhead for a while, too.
I slept with her once in school. I was just a kid. I was experimenting. It was just that one time. She developed a... fixation... on me. She styled her hair like mine. She wore the same kind of clothes I did. It scared me.
What did she tell me, Beth?
She told you, didn't she?
Tell me about Catherine.
What do you want, Nick?
I know the type. I'm a psychologist.
I thought you hardly know her.
My interest is in you, not in her. She seduces people, she manipulates --
What is this interest you've got in her?
Yes you do. Something's on with you. You're sleeping with her, aren't you?
I don't need any help.
What is your problem? I'm trying to help you. Why won't you let me help you?
Yes you did. I'm a big girl. I can handle it.
Beth. I didn't mean what I said. About --
I hardly knew her. She gave me the creeps, though. I don't know why.
What was she like in school?
She must really be something. From a clinical point of view.
She knows stuff about me that only you know.
How do you know Catherine Tramell saw my reports?
No. I mean it, thank you.
It's the least I could do... considering I got you into this mess with those reports.
Yes. I care about you. I did it for you.
You did it for me.
Yeah? Well why don't you find some friendly therapist and work some of that hostility out. But take my advice. Put a little more life into it than you usually do.
Sometimes I really hate you.
I don't owe you anything; you don't owe me anything. We went to bed -- what was it? -- ten or fifteen times? It wasn't memorable enough to carry any obligations.
No, Nick, please --
It's Internal Affairs, isn't it?
Don't, Beth. Don't lie to me.
It's a confidential psychiatric record, it'd be illegal --She backs into a wall. She looks very scared. He comes very close to her -- puts an arm behind her to the wall.
Who's got access to my goddamn file?
What are you talking about, Nick -- what's wrong with you?
I thought you quit.
I need a cigarette.
Why didn't you tell me?
We were in some of the same classes.
She said what you said she'd say.
What was she like?
What else is new?
Baby-sitting. Rookie cop.
What are you doing here?
You don't look so okay.
It's fucked -- now will you please tell I.A. that I'm just you average healthy totally fucked-up cop and let me get out of here?
How's not smoking?
No! I'm working my tail off. I'm off the sauce, I'm not even smoking anymore.
How about the coke?
It's been three months.
How about the booze?
My sex life is fine. My sex life is pretty shitty actually since I stopped seeing you -- maybe I should think about my Electrolux again.
How is your -- personal life?
Things are fine. I told you. They're fine.
So -- how are things?
I know it is -- but sit down anyway so we can get it over with, okay?
It's bullshit. You know it is.
As long as Internal Affairs wants you to, I suppose. Sit down, Nick.
I'm fine. Come on, Beth! You know I'm fine! How the hell long do I have to keep doing this?
How are you, Nick?
We fuck like minks. We forget the rugrats. We live happily ever after.
I hate rugrats.
We fuck like minks. We raise rugrats. We live happily ever after.
What do we do now, Nick?
The games are over. You were right. It was the fuck of the century, Shooter.
What is this -- some kind of... Joke? Are we playing games again?
What do you want, Nick? Flowers? I'll send you some flowers.
I told you. She kills him.
How did it end?
I finished my book.
Somebody always does.
Somebody has to die.
It won't sell.
They fuck like minks, raise rugrats, and live happily ever after.
What happens to them?
A detective. He falls for the wrong girl.
Really. What are you writing about.
I'm writing a book.
What are you researching?
I'm very good at research. I'll help you.
I have to do some research tomorrow.
Come over here and tell me no.
Did you miss me?
You didn't not see me long enough to miss me.
I decided to give you one more chance. I missed you.
How'd you get in here?
You still think I kill people, don't you?
I did, too. She told me it was backwards -- she said you even styled your hair the way she did.
You're not going to tell me what she's doing. I thought we weren't playing games anymore.
Did you? What's she doing?
I found Lisa Henderson.
I just thought I'd surprise you. What's the matter?
Of course I knew.
You like to hang out with murderers or what? Did you know Roxy --
Honey, why don't you go in the car? I'll be right there.
Can I talk to you a minute?
He asked if I had an icepick in me yet.
What did he say?
I'll convince you.
I don't know.
Do you believe me?
Maybe I'm losing interest in my book.
What about the other night. What about last night? Was that to get to know your character?
I would've paid more. I wanted to know everything about you. Then you came down here after Johnny got killed... it gave me a chance to get to know my character better.
You paid $50,000 for your character?
I'd read about your shootings in the papers. I decided to write a book about a detective. I wanted to know my character.
About three months before I met you.
I paid him $50,000 in cash for your psychiatric file.
You won't believe me.
No more games, Nick. I'm tired of playing games!
I never have before.
I thought you didn't do adolescent secrets.
No, she didn't... she never got jealous before... she got excited. I don't have luck with women. There was this girl I met while I was in college. I slept with her once. She started following me around, taking my picture. She dyed her hair, copied my clothes. Lisa something... Oberman. It was awful.
Maybe she got jealous of Johnny Boz, too.
For what... to set me up? She loved me she wouldn't frame me.
Do you think she killed Johnny Boz?
Make love to me.
It's OK. It's OK.
Everybody that I care about dies.
Do you think I told her to kill You?
Did you like her to watch?
I should have known. I came into the house when you were down on the beach. She looked at me so strangely. She left right after you. I shouldn't have let her watch us. She wanted to watch me all the time. She tried to kill you, didn't she?
You're in over your head.
I don't have a choice.
You shouldn't play this game.
I told you I had a vivid imagination.
I thought that business with the scarf was pretty nifty.
Do you want personal insights and adolescent secrets? I don't do those.
Are you kidding? You think this is my idea of morning-after conversation?
Fine. How's your back?
How's your shoulder?
Do you want her to join us sometime?
How about Roxy? Is she a fuck to the century, too?
I thought it was a pretty good beginning.
What did you think?
I told her it was the fuck of the century.
Did you think it was so special?
She's seen everything before.
Maybe she saw something she didn't see before.
I'll meet you there.
I'm leaving the house around midnight. In case you're going to follow me. I'm going down to Johnny's club.
I'm getting deeper and deeper into my character.
How's your new book?
To see if I can get away with it.
Why take the risk?
I'll risk it.
Good. I'd miss you. You can get into trouble, though. You're not really a cop anymore.
You're not going to stop following me around now just because you're on leave -- are you?
No. I wrote it years afterwards.
You mean did I write it before my parents died?
When did you write it?
To see if he can get away with it.
Why does he do it?
A boy kills his parents. They have a plane. He makes it look like an accident.
What's it about?
Aren't you going to thank me?
What do you want from me, Catherine?
Say -- "What do you want from me, Catherine?"
It's not the same thing, is it?
There's Pepsi in the fridge.
Bitch mostly, but he meant it affectionately. You don't have any coke, do you? I love coke and Jack Daniel's.
What did Bobby Vasquez used to call you?
Cheers. My friends call me Catherine.
I know, Nicky, but I like it.
My wife used to call me that.
What if I call you Nicky?
What if I asked you not to call me Shooter?
Isn't he the policeman that you shot, Shooter?
What did you pay Nilsen?
Jack Daniel's okay? It's gonna have to be.
You can make a mistake.
Don't get too cocky.
You're not easy to figure. I'm just very good at figuring.
Yeah. Would you like to come up and have a drink?
I like you.
I wasn't talking about real friends. Why doesn't Gus like me.
I don't know about that I don't have any money I don't have any attorneys Gus is my only real friend.
I have attorneys. They have friends. I have friends. Money buys you a lot of attorneys and friends.
How exactly did you hear?
Yes, you did. They never tested you, did they? But Internal Affairs knew.
What happened, Nick? Did you get sucked into it? Did you like it too much?
Only in theory. You know all about homicidal impulse, don't you, shooter? Not in theory -- in practice.
Didn't you study it in school?
Yes. She's helped me understand homicidal impulse.
She wiped out her whole family.
Noah was my counselor in my freshman year. That's probably where I got the idea for the icepick. For my book. Funny how the subconscious works. Hazel is my friend.
You want a name from the present? How about Hazel Dobkins?
There's a name from the past.
Tell me about Professor Goldstein.
They were drug buys. I was a vice cop.
Four shootings in five years. All accidents.
It was an accident. They got in the line of fire.
I don't know. But you do.
You tell me.
I'd like to ask you some, too.
I'd like to ask you a few more questions.
Would you like a drink? I was just going to have one.
No. Come in.
Am I... disturbing you?
You know I don't like to wear any underwear, don't you, Nick?
I don't know anything that isn't police business.
You know all about me.
How do you know all this stuff about me?
You see? We're both innocent, Nick.
Because I'm a professional liar. I spend most of my waking hours dwelling on my lies. For my writing.
If I were guilty, and if I wanted to beat that machine, it wouldn't be tiring. It wouldn't be tiring at all.
It's got to be tiring to beat that machine.
You still get the pleasure. Didn't you ever fuck anybody else while you were married, Nick?
Even though you were fucking him.
Because you didn't love him --
But you didn't hurt --
I felt somebody had read my book and was playing a game.
How did you feel when I told you Johnny Boz had died -- that day at the beach.
I loved him. I hurt.
How did you feel when he died?
I've got a degree in psych. It goes with the turf. Games are fun.
You like playing games, don't you?
Yes it does, doesn't it?
Writing a book about it gives you an alibi for not killing him.
No. I said I liked Johnny to use his hands. I don't give any rules, Nick. I go with the flow.
But you said you liked men to use their hands.
I have nothing to hide.
I told them you wouldn't want to hide.
I told them you wouldn't want an attorney present.
Did I miss something?
A detective. He falls for the wrong woman.
What's your new book about?
It won't last.
I told you -- I quit.
I found some in my purse; would you like one?
I thought you were out of cigarettes.
Yes, you do.
I don't smoke.
Do you have a cigarette?
Only when they make interesting reading.
Do you always keep old newspapers around?
If that's the way you want to play it.
Are you arresting me?
Ms. Tramell, we'd like you to come downtown and answer some questions for us.
No. I wasn't in the mood to have sex with anyone last night.
Was there anyone with you last night?
No. We had a drink at the club. We left together. I came here. He went home.
Did you go home with him?
Did you leave the club with him?
Were you with him last night?
About a year and a half.
How long were you having sex with him?
I wasn't dating him. I was fucking him.
How long were you dating him?
I know who you are.
I'd have to be pretty stupid to write a book about a killing and then kill him the way I described in my book. I'd be announcing myself as the killer. I'm not stupid.
Did you kill Mr. Boz, Ms. Tramell?
Did you ever tie him up?
Exactly what do you have in mind, Mr. Corrigan.
Did you ever engage in sado- masochistic activity with him?
I had sex with him for about a year and a half. I liked having sex with him.
Would you tell us the nature of your relationship with Mr. Boz?
What are you going to do? Charge me with smoking?
There is no smoking in this building, Ms. Tramell.
No thank you.
I'm John Corrigan. I'm an assistant district attorney, Ms. Tramell. Can we get you anything? Would you like some coffee?
I'm a writer, I use people for what I write. You write what you know. Let the world beware.
That's pretty cold, ain't it, lady?
In the beginning. Then I got to like what he did for me.
What kind of drugs?
Do you use drugs, Ms. Tramell?
The answer is no. I didn't kill him.
I like that. "Suspension of Disbelief."
You make it up, but it has to be believable. They call it suspension of disbelief.
It teaches you to lie.
It must really be somehtin' --makin' stuff up all the time.
Yes I am.
You workin' on another book?
Why would I need an attorney?
You have the right to an attorney.
Read me my rights and arrest me and I'll go downtown.
Listen, lady, we can do this downtown if you --
I don't really feel like talking anymore.
Really. Maybe that's why you're from Homicide. How?
He was murdered.
How did he die?
I hope I helped you out.
Nope. She did. Like I say. It never panned.
He had a girlfriend?
The usual -- a girlfriend.
What kind of talk?
Nope. There was some talk; it never panned.
Was she ever a suspect?
Nope, can't say that I do.
Do you remember his name?
Yeah, he said it was routine too. Now it's two guys saying it's routine.
I had another one of you guys down here from Frisco -- about a year ago -- he asked me the same question. What's this about anyway?
Was his wife ever a suspect?
No suspects, no motive. Unsolved.
Were there ever any suspects?
.38 revolver. Never recovered.
What was the weapon?
He was walking home from work. They only lived a coupla blocks from the clinic. Somebody drove by and shot him.
She said alone -- suite 405. It ain't gonna take long.
I'm going with you.
Where the hell you goin'?
You got goddamn tweety-birds flutterin' around your head, that's what you got. You think you're gonna fuck like minks, raise rugrats, and live happily ever after? Oh, man.
I know what happened. Catherine told me what happened.
Goddamn writers -- all they do is use up trees and ruin people's eyes. There's gotta be somebody at Berkeley who knows what the hell happened.
She's a writer -- it's part of what she does.
She'd have to be nuttier than a twenty-pound Christmas fruitcake. She's not the one who hangs out with multiple murderers -- your girlfriend is.
He was I.A. He probably asked her about it.
How did she know Nilsen knew about it -- if it happened?
Don't you get it, Gus? If Beth killed Johnny Boz to frame Catherine -- she wouldn't want anyone to know what happened at Berkeley. It gives her the motive to kill Nilsen.
If she's telling you the truth.
Catherine told me what was in it.
So Nilsen had a report on her -- so what. You don't know what the hell was in it?
Which one you talkin' about now, son? We know ole Hazel did it; we know young Roxy did it -- and the other one Well, hell, she's got that magna come lawdy pussy on her that done fried up your brain.
I'm not sure anymore she did it.
Ain't that hard, son. This young farmgirl, she got tired of all that attention goin' to her little brothers -- she fixed 'em. Just like 'ole Hazel Dobkins fixed her whole family -- except young Roxy here, she didn't use a wedding present. She used Daddy's razor.
I don't understand what the hell's going on here, pop.
You're my friend, Gus.
I don't believe it.
You know that stuff they say about how you can judge people by their friends?
She's right. You got an icepick in you yet?
Catherine says you don't like her.
You think I'd let you drive my Cadillac car? I ain't lettin' no hear-up-his-ass person drive my Cadillac car.
Come on, I'll drive you in this thing.
In that little pissant car of yours? Hell, no. I ain't gettin' no back pain disability retirement -- I'm gettin' me a full pension and a real gold-plate Seiko watch.
You all right, pop? You want me to drive you?
Maybe it wasn't her that paid him. Maybe the money was for somethin' else. How the fuck do I know? I'm just an old city cowboy tryin' not to fall outta his saddle.
It doesn't make sense. She didn't know me three months ago.
That's her pussy talkin' --He gets a real nasty look from a very fat woman eating a cheeseburger. He winks at her. The woman looks away from him, shaking her head.
I don't know. I'm just not.
Why the hell not?
I'm not afraid of her.
I feel fine!
You feeling better?
You don't like punk rockers?
What in the hell for? You think I'm gettin' any at my age? I don't like blue-haired women. I don't like 'em.
You oughta use a rubber, pop. You really should.
I don't give a... flyin'... chili- bean... fart about AIDS!
I'm not gonna get AIDS, pop --don't worry about it. I always use a rubber.
You... fucked her! Goddamn dumb sonofabitch... You fucked her! Goddamn, you are one dumb sonofabitch --
I wasn't there last night, either.
I went over last night, too.
Easy there, partner -- I wasn't there.
I know what that's like.
Everybody that she plays with dies.
She want to play? Fine. I can play.
Forgive me for askin', son, and I don't mean to belabor the obvious, but why is it that you've got your head so far up your own ass?
Well, hell, son, it's got a certain ring to it, I'll say that.
I don't think it's funny.
I don't son, but I got the minority opinion.
You think I --
I don't know.
What is it you got between you?
She knows where I live and breathe. She's coming after me.
You sure got real conclusive ways of demonstrating that.
I got tired of being played with.
No, sir. You won't. There's smoke off yonder on the horizon. They're gonna want your badge.
Nothin' I'll be okay, pop.
What's goin' down, son?
Hell yes! Couldn't get it outta my head for years. Still can't. Nice little kids -- nice husband, wasn't porkin' around -- no financial problems. One day -- outta the clear blue sky -- she does 'em. All of 'em. Used a knife. He got for a wedding present. Didn't even deny it. Sweet as honey. Said she didn't know why she done it.
Do you remember a case -- 1956 -- Hazel Dobkins?
No, sir. They never even got a statement from her.
Was she ever suspect?
I came in here to jack off the damn machine. One dead psychology professor. Noah Goldstein. Dr. Noah Goldstein. And guess what? He was her counselor.
What are you doing here, Pop?
Ain't you go nothin' better to do than to come in here and jack off the damn machine?
It's my first drink in three months. That okay with you, pop? She doesn't know me. I never saw her before Gus and I talked to her.
What you doin', son?
She misses me.
How'd it go, son?
I'm a smart sonofabitch. I just hide it.
I didn't know you knew who Picasso was, Gus.
Ain't that cute? They got his and her Pig-assos, son.
They're executives. They're nervous about everything.
Talcott doesn't usually show up at the office 'till after his 18 holes. What are they nervous about?
Not now he don't.
Before your time, pop. Mid-sixties. Five or six hits. He's got a club down in the Fillmore now.
I never heard of him.
Rock and roll, Gus. Johnny Boz.
Who was this fuckin' guy?
Go stick your head in a tub of ice water. See where she leads.
You're already gettin' psychological input, son.
He looks a little shrunk, that's all.
You look like dogshit.
Yeah. I know.
He ain't that way. He's got heart.
Sometimes I think he started banging her just to get himself off the hook with Internal Affairs.
Maybe it's for old-time's sake.
Maybe she did, Gus. Maybe she grew herself an Afro and learned a left hook and put shoe polish on her face. Let's polygraph her again and ask her about it.
Not unless she got up in the ring and turned into one mean sonofabitch.
She's 54 years old and weighs 240 pounds.
Maybe the maid did it.
She said she didn't know herself, just sort of did it on impulse. The razor just happened to be there.
What was the motive?
You're looking for Catherine, not me.
Were you with him last night?
Is he dead?
When was the last time you saw John Boz?
What do you want?
Yeah. But you didn't tell me to stay away from her car.
I told you to stay away from Tramell.
Gus and I talked to her at Tramell's house. All we did was write her name down.
You knew her, didn't you?
Don't fuck with me, Nick. I don't need a reason to put your ass in a sling.
I don't think she meant to go off the hill, do you?
You're driving around North Beach for no particular reason and this car won't get out of the way --
It was an accident.
Tell me again. I want to hear you say it again.
You don't but it, do you? She knew nobody would but it. She knew I'd say she did it. And she knew nobody would buy it.
First you've got her buying your file. Now you've got her killing Nilsen. Forget her, willya? Go someplace. Sit in the sun. Get away from this goddamn fog. Get her out of your system.
Catherine Tramell. It's part of her game.
Beth? Now you've got Beth killing people?
She killed him.
I.A.'s going to talk to you more about Nilsen. They're handling the investigation, we're not. Stay in touch with Dr. Gardner, it'll help on the evaluation.
I'll ask you once, Nick -- for the record did you kill him?
What about me?
Gus -- go over to Berkeley. Harrigan -- find out what else she's published. Andrews -- get the files on her parents' accident. Carbon Beth on everything. I want some psychological input on this Andrews and Harrigan go; Nick is left there with Gus.
Fuck you, too Nick.
Fuck you, Phil.
How you're saying she killed her parents? Did she kill Bobby Vasquez, too?
How did they die? Was there an investigation?
Her parents died in an accident. I don't care what else she's written. What are you -- a book critic?
Come on, Phil. You're not gonna let this slide. What about her parents? What about what else she's published? At least we should get the stuff to see if we find anything else that's an amazing real-life coincidence.
How the fuck do you know? What is it with you and this broad anyway?
She knew she could beat it. That's why she asked to take it.
What now what? Now nothing. She passed the polygraph. That's it.
And you volunteered.
She didn't ask me for the ride. She asked anybody.
What is all this "Nick" stuff -- Nick would you like a cigarette. Nick can you give me a ride.
We bring her in for questioning.
So what do we do -- nothing?
You forgot her degree in literature. She's a writer. She published a novel last year under a pen name. Do you want to know what it's about?
I love it. She's got a hundred million bucks. She fucks fighters and rock and roll stars. And she's got a degree in screwing with peoples' heads.
Formerly engaged to Roberto Vasquez, deceased --
Are you kidding me?
I said keep it.
Do you want me to work the case, Phil, or do you want me to --
Keep your three o'clock.
What was it?
He left the club with his girlfriend about midnight. That's the last time anybody saw him.
Maybe that's what you're counting on to get you off the hook.
We know you're not stupid, Ms. Tramell.
She was the last person seen with the guy -- I'll take the responsibility.
She's got enough money to burn this whole department down.
Catherine Tramell. Age 30. No priors, no convictions. Double major, magnum cum laude, Berkeley, 1980. Literature and Psychology. Daughter, sole survivor -- Marvin and Elaine Tramell, killed in a boating accident, 1978, Catherine Tramell sole heir. Estimated assets $110 million.
On what basis?
She's a suspect.
He was shot.
He died -- about five or six years ago.
Only if you're making it.
Can there be some mistake?
No Lisa Anderson, detective.
Can you check again?
Yes I did.
Did you check all four years?
Anderson. Jack W. Donald M. I'm sorry. No Lisa.
Fourteen. We seal juvenile records until they're deceased. That's why you didn't find it in your computer.
How old was she when this happened?
I'm Roxy. I'm her -- friend.
Who are you?
You wouldn't be here otherwise, would you?
Why do you think he's dead?
Are you vice?
We're sorry to disturb you, we'd like to ask you some --
As long as I've known Andy, he's never asked me for anything except to speak to you about getting off drugs. He's painted my picture, we've eaten dinner in God knows how many places together. But he doesn't care about me. He cares about you. You're the only person he cares about. He's your friend. Fuck that article. You want a toasted bagel with cream cheese?
I haven't felt like talking to him since that thing came out.
You're asking me this because of the 'lapdog' remark. I read that. The person that wrote that has the compassion of a housefly. That's your enemy, not your audience. Your audience hasn't even been born yet. It's a lie that art is popular. The only thing popular about it is that it's written about in newspapers. I'm surprised when anybody comes to my openings. There're about ten people on the planet who know anything about painting, and Andy's one of them.
What about the shit they write?
No. It's one of the few times I feel good. I used to have to go to work and cook every day. That I got sick of.
The whole thing  painting.
Do you ever get sick of it?
This is painted on a backdrop from the Kabuki theater in Japan. I painted it after Joseph Beuys died. A rebirth painting. I felt like he could've painted it, or maybe someone else was painting it instead of me. The Chinese calligraphers used to change their name mid-career so they could start over as someone else..
See ya in an hour. So what do you think?
Let's get out of here.
No, I wanted to make a painting of you.
Why, so you could humiliate me?
You're right. It's your version. You should come over to the studio sometime.
It's always how you would do it. This is my version.
I like the one with the dragon's heads a lot. But the black one's filled up with too many heads... I'd take some of them out. I think you're painting too fast. I wouldn't put in so many heads. Let it breathe a bit.
What do you think?
I haven't decided yet. Rene, you wanna come over to the studio tomorrow. I wanna make a painting of you.
Not sure. How was yours?
When's your show?
I don't know.
Is this finished yet?
Rene's been telling me about your work.
Hey  it's the big A.M..
Really. Huh. Too bad.
I'm a painter, too.
No. Should I have?
My name is Jean Michel Basquiat. Have you heard of me?
Oh, I didn't know that.
It's in New York.
I think it's in New Jersey.
It's in New Jersey.
Saddle River, New York!
Saddle River's in New Jersey.
Nixon lives in Saddle River, New York.
That would be a pity because you're a real painter.
After the show we should take a nice long vacation. Maybe go to Hawaii. That's what I'm gonna do. I'm going to give up painting and start playing music again. I wanna sing.
When I was poor, everybody doubted I could make it. When I got rich, everyone said, `yeah, but he'll never keep it up.' Now everyone says `he's killing himself.' So I clean up, and then they say `Look. His art's dead.' I don't take drugs, anyway. I'm healthy now.
Bruno called. In Europe, people are saying you're gonna die from drugs. They think they can cash in on your death.
People are only interested in you because you're famous, not because they know a fuckin' thing about your work.
Gee. You shouldn't take it so seriously, Jean. That's why you can't stop taking drugs. You always think people don't like you. Everyone likes you.
I don't even have any friends anymore besides you. And everyone says "Warhol? That death-warmed over person on drugs? He's just using you."
We can do better. It needed more white.
That was my favorite part!
I don't like beer.
How come you're not peeing on them yourself?
I wanted to make a few more of these. Frank's been drinking this Mexican beer. It makes a good green.
You think those are good presents? Who wants an old wig?
I'm going to send them to my friends for Christmas presents.
What's with the wigs?
Well, have you asked her to come back?
Yeah. I really blew it. I still think about her.
Do you still love her?
That girl looks just like my old girlfriend Gina.
Let's go to the Carnegie Museum. They have the world's most famous sculptures all in these giant plaster replicas. It's really great. It's in Pittsburg.
Let's leave this town and go someplace. Some island.
My dog, Archie... I woke up with flea bites... Creepy. I ran out and bought flea collars. They work really well.
Gee. I don't need to. You're a natural. You should sign up with my modeling agent.
Yeah  I'd do that... You could teach me.
Wow... Stop giving them away. I got an invitation to model for Comme de Garcons... You wanna do it with me?
Everybody's paying top dollar for scraps of paper, refrigerator doors  anything with a SAMO tag on it. The other day, I just wanted a pack of cigarettes, so I did a drawing and sold it for two bucks. A week later this gallery calls me up: "Somebody's offering us the drawing. Should we buy it for five thousand?"
That's good. At least they're interested.
I wish they'd quit writing this shit about me.
Yeah, I met her already.
Jean Michel, this is Mary Boone. She's got the great new gallery.
My jacket? Gee, great... Your show looks great. Quite a turnout. You look great. You kids. You drink red wine with fish. You can do anything! Make paintings in the basement of your gallery? First time I've heard of that!
Andy, man, thanks for coming. I'd like to paint your jacket.
You don't even work on your stuff!
I can give you five. You didn't do very much to these.
Ten bucks apiece.
Ohhh. That's new. That sounds good.
Yeah... Like  stupid, ridiculous, crummy art.
You wanna buy some ignorant art? Ten bucks.
I really think you should talk to him about this.
I'm interested in showing Jean's work.
You should talk to him about this.
How much for these five?
These are great.
Is Jean Michel here?
Who is it?
It's great that people are interested, but if anyone's going to buy anything, I'll handle it for you. Everything goes through the gallery, even if they come to your studio.
Hi Dad. Hi Nora.
Jean, your parents are here.
Tom and Cynthia Kruger.
How about right now?
You want a drink?
Well, I don't want to get mugged on a Bowery street corner. Maybe I could find a place for you to work. Take my card.
You name it, I paint there.
I'd love to see some more of your work... Where's your studio?
You haven't been by lately.
I know that. Don't let him get away.
That's the same guy who did this painting.
Just look at him. Little silver thingies on his cowboy boots? Honey, I don't think so.
How do you know?
Naaaa. Poor thing has a little dick.
I don't know. I told you, this isn't my apartment.
Who did this? Who did this?
Cut it out, man! And don't be callin' me that shit!
Oh man, you a FINE nigga! You know that?
Chill, man! Be cool! This isn't even my apartment!
You haven't heard? Andy's dead.
What do you mean?
I didn't see you.
B.B. It's me  Jean! What's the matter? No snow in Switzerland this year?
It's OK. Just have him bring you to dinner at Mr. Chow's later. We'll be there.
Do you think I could borrow your limousine? I'll get it back to you in an hour.
You shouldn't have put it in the show. This is the one I absolutely have to have. I really love it.
I can get ten.
It doesn't matter how much you worked on them. It matters how much you can get for them.
OK. I'll be at your studio Thursday three o'clock.
Bruno spoke to me already. We could talk about it.
You have a bunch of them, don't you? Albert Milo walks in from another room.
I need a dealer.
Jean Michel... Crawling from the wreckage?
Bring him over sometime. I have some other stuff to show him.
I hear your show was sold out already. There's a very important collector who's interested in some of your works.
Tell me about it. What are you angry about?
Should there be?
OK. One last thing. Is there any anger in you? Any anger in your work?
Are those the only two possibilities? You wanna French fry?
Or rather, do you think you're being exploited or are you yourself exploiting the white image of the black artist from the ghetto?
Is it true that your mother resides in a mental institution?
No, he said I was the Eddie Murphy of the art world. He said the Eddie Murphy.
Why, that's from Time Magazine.
Who said that?
I see.. And... How do you respond to being called  hmmm...  yes, "the pickaninny of the art world."
We don't hang them at home, y'know  just in the streets..
Hmmmm. Interesting. And when you grew up were there any primitives hanging in your home?
Yes, yes... Let's talk about that.... your roots... Your father is from Haiti, isn't he?
No, I'm Haitian-Puerto Rican.
I'm not black.
I use a lot of colors  not only black.
Yes, but as a black painter 
Oh, that's a "Leonardo's Greatest Hits" painting. You like it?
Well, you said that. You've got a lot of references from Leonardo da Vinci, don't you?
You mean like an ape?
Hmmm. And 'Parasites.' You seem to be a Primal Expressionist.
Leeches. A long list of leeches. It looks good like that.
What are they?
Where? Do you ask Miles where he got that note from? Where do you take your words from? Everywhere.
Yes, I understand  but where do you take them from?
They're just words.
Yes. What do they... stand for?
... Can you... decipher this for us?
I hate this. Turn that off.
What is it that gets you out of bed in the morning?
Yeah, just put their bill on my tab.
See that table over there? I'd like to pay their bill.
I'm sorry, Mr. Basquiat.
Chateau Latour '64, please.
Would you like to see the wine list?
What's wrong with you today?
Wanna bet? If you show too much respect for people with money, they don't have respect for you.
Get up. She won't buy anything if she sees me working on it!
Why don't you try letting her in, Steve  I mean Shenge.
It's Maria Portos. What should we do?
Use your fucking instinct.
You want me to put it here?
 In this corner?
Still not here.
It's Andy again.
Yeah... Maybe just his arms. Put some Cerulean Blue there.
Paint it out.
Medicine, man! Like health food. I'm taking care of my health!
Me fall? Let's get some drugs!
Sit down! You're gonna fall out!
Come on, let's get out of here.
I guess it was a long time ago.
Hey fuck you! I deserve this shit. You're just jealous 'cause it ain't happening to you!
That's not how I meant it. For all you know, you might just be a flash in the pan! You can never tell.
'Uppity?' Like as in 'uppity nigger?'
What's your fuckin' problem? You get a girlfriend and a little attention and then start acting all uppity with me.
Good. What do you have?
I don't really have any problems.
What's your fuckin' problem, anyway?
I ain't John Henry.
What's the rush, John Henry?
Yeah... I'll paint on it.
You gonna carry that around all night?
We got beat.
Come on in!
Willie Mays!!! Willie Mays!!!
Check you later, man.
Don't give him anything, man. Your art's worth a lot. Trade. That's what real artists do with each other. Besides, he'll just use you. He's famous for that.
He's the best painter in the world. I'm gonna give him one of these.
What're you doing? You're doing something.
He drops dead! See? Just do your shit like you do it! Your friends like you, you get laid, everyone walks by, sees your stuff everywhere. It's good. What else do you want?
So then what?
Oh man! Folklore guy  worked on the railroad. Y'know, pounding in spikes and laying down track. Then one day they invented a machine to do it. And he says "Fuck that, I'm a MAN" and he challenges the machine to a race to lay down a mile of track. It takes two days. Neck and neck the whole time. They get right to the end, and he beats it by one spike. Got a cigarette?
Who's John Henry?
Famous people are usually pretty stupid. You're too smart. You'd get bored to death. You don't wanna be like John Henry  fighting the machine. Just do what you do. It's about integrity. Follow your heart.
Ummm... Four years. Six to get rich.
Whatever. Famous. To where you can do your stuff all day without thinking about anything else.
Oh  you mean black people!
You're shattering all my myths.
Concentrate on the ball. Shoot.
I am... On Gina. Fuck  I didn't think we were actually gonna do this.
Come on, Jean. Get rid of your cigarette. Concentrate.
We're getting married. She said she could tell I was a great artist  she could see it in my eyes. She said she wanted to be by my side and have inter-racial babies with me.
You got a date already?
Thanks. Your dad called again  something about a job.
I knew I left these somewhere. One of these'll send your kids to college someday. Here  I made this for you.
Yeah man. I'm jealous. You're always great, Benny. "Her name is G-I-N-A Gina And she lo-oooves me." I did say chicken!
Would you shut the fuck up? You hear what I'm doing?
"She loves me. Oh yeah she loves me! She loooooooves me, Oh yeah she loves me!" Bring me some chicken, baby!
Who am I?
The Devil, man. Rene Ricard. Art critic  writes for Artforum. People read him. Tell him who you are..
Hey  Willie Mays.
What's his name?
You don't have to be sorry. There's no one to blame. Jean, you're a real artist. I thought I was one. You made me realize I wasn't.
I don't believe it, Jean  they're picking straws.
Baby, I think about you a lot. I'm really sorry about everything. You have to believe me. I'm serious. I wish, y'know, that we were 
That is amazing. What year is it?
What's that about?
Wow. Congratulations. I hate that asshole. Thanks for coming. I guess I just wanted to find out how you're 
Pretty much the same.
How is he?
So. Are you ready? I start Columbia next fall. Of course, there's like, a year of pre-med stuff, but  whatever. I'm really excited. And: Rene gave me a job as his secretary. His poems are getting published.
Why does everybody say that? He's the only person I know who doesn't need to use me.
Don't you think he's using you?
He's not. He's out of town and he calls me every day. What's weird about him?
So are you really friends with Andy? He seems like such a weirdo.
A present I picked up for you.
You're your own baby.
What's wrong with me?
You mean babies with you?
It looks done.
Staten Island would be ok.
Oahu, Lanai, Niihau, Kahoolawee 
I hadn't thought about it.
Which island of Hawaii do you want our house to be on? Maui? Kaui? Molokai?
You look fucking beautiful, beautiful.
You want some?
Basquiat, don't lie. This is smack.
Basquiat, what did you take?
I'm your family.
You're blaming me? I had to go see my family.
It's not Sunday? I missed you. You shouldn't leave me alone.
It's Monday morning.
Oh, God, Basquiat, you scared the shit out of me. How the fuck could you do that to yourself?
... What's the matter?
Manzanita.... ... if one day I die, and you read this piece of paper, I want you to know how much I love you. Although I'll never see you again, Gypsy, Gypsy, your hair, your hair, your face, your face'
What who's saying?
Do you know what he's saying?
You don't have any fucking money..
... I'll buy you some new ones.
I'm going to my parents this weekend. What am I going to wear? How could you do that to me?
C'mon, baby, I painted them for you. They're beautiful now.
Basquiat, those are my best clothes!!! What are you doing?
A friend of mine offered me a job doing a little work installing a show in a gallery. He's an electrician. I was supposed to be there an hour ago.
Wanna go get some breakfast?
I do. I just said that. I was never here before. I actually like it.
I thought you hated this place?
Yeah, if you have any dimes left. 477- 0496.
Party girls? Can I call you?
I don't go there. Too many party girls.
Just come to the Mudd Club on Friday.
You do! You definitely do.
I'm clean. Smell me. I always smell good. I don't know why, I just do!
Have you been camping? You could use a scrub.
I think I could do that alone.
Can I walk you home?
Guess I just got sick of him.
I guess you did.
No, don't tell me  you just got fired by your crazy boss.
I'll take it. Andy, gimme three thousand dollars. Just the caviar  I'll get the rest.
It's three thousand dollars!
I'll take the whole tin.
Yeah, it's the best one.
Is that the best quality you have?
You only want one Big Mac?
Forget it .I'll take six, no, seven chocolate shakes, an order of fries, a Big Mac, and two apple pies.
You want three Big Macs, two chocolate shakes, two orders of fries, and an apple pie.
I'll take three big Macs, two chocolate shakes, two orders of fries, and an apple pie.
Nice to meet you, Shenge. Want a job?
They call me Steve, but I prefer Shenge.
What's your name, man?
Sure. I'd be glad to.
Would you check out my studio some time?
You did it! You made it. I'm a painter, too.
I really... admire you.
See you later.
Some of them.
You like your dad's paintings?
I've seen you before. I like your paintings a lot. Your hair was different.
No name? That's ok. I'll just call you Big Pink.
You're a fast mover.
Oh. I didn't know. I'll take you to the best restaurant in town. You'll miss a great meal and I'll keep the scarf, anyway. What's your name?
I don't eat junk food.
Have a Mac.
No, I'd like the scarf.
I'd like to squeeze your titties.
How can I ever thank you?
Fame. My liquid hijack Marlboros and the moon and the cow that jumped over it.
What? What do you want?
You don't even know me. I want real respect.
What is it you want? Respect? I have respect for you, just for making this call. One philosopher said "Sadness is a sin against the richness of the world." Think about it. Feel it.
No, I don't. I'm alone. We all are. Especially here. The world's unjust. The respect fools get. The disrespect I get.
You see? You have someone to live for.
No! I have a boyfriend. He loves me.
What? Life's beautiful. Depression isn't permanent. Don't you believe that? What is it  did your girlfriend leave you?
Life doesn't... make... sense. This city's k-killing me. I want my liquid hijack Marlboros!
What? Wait a minute... talk to me.
Haitian. I'm going to kill myself. I'm taking pills. Reds, blues, greens.
That's a beautiful name. French?
Thanks again for not inviting me. I'm only here on business.
I'll make you another one.
You fucking little whore! You sold my painting! I'm gonna tell you something, brother  when you're climbing up the ladder of success, don't kick out the rungs! Believe that shit.
I can't. After the show.
Thanks... I'll take it tonight.
That one's for you.
What time is it?
So shut up and keep painting..
You're news. I want the scoop. I write it down. When I speak, no one believes me. But when I write it down, people know it's true. There's never been a black painter in art history that's been considered really important, you know?
Yes, Boss. If you're so smart, why are you here with me in this basement?
So keep painting.
My point exactly.
I didn't know Tony Bennett painted.
Singing on stage and painting in your spare time.
Tony Bennett... What do you mean?
Fuck band practice... If you're gonna be a painter you're gonna have to break a few hearts  you don't wanna be like Tony Bennett..
Fuck... I forgot about that.
Uh huhh... Band practice? It's Benny. He wants to know why you're not at band practice...?
Jean Michel Basquiat.
I can put you in the ring with him. Even book the dates. But those big boys know how to fight. They could make you look real sissy. I was looking at that painting upstairs. It's the first time a picture made me embarrassed to own anything. So what's your real name? 'Samo?'
Can you put me in the ring with him?
You heard of Albert Milo. I made that niggah. I'm Rene Ricard. Didn't you read "Not About Albert Milo?" I know who to hype. Baby, I'm gonna make you a star.
I sculpt. I'm really just starting to find myself. How old are you? Twenty? You're just like I used to be. I'm forty-one. And I'm glad I haven't gotten any recognition. It gave me time to develop.
I didn't know.
Jean? Hold this, please. You'll get there. But it's good to have something to fall back on. That's why I became an electrician. It pays the rent. Y'know, I'm an artist, too.
That's impossible. I've got, like, five of 'em!
You don't have any!!!
'Phillips head,' right?
A Phillips head. From the toolbox.
Jean, could you get me a Phillips screwdriver?
I need this?
I need this?
I just don't think you're being fair.
You nuts? Let him order? You on his side? You're not such a good waitress. You get out, too.
Pipe down, Lech. Let him order.
You're selling and ending the culture. Not one bit of information. Only to get the money and growl with the power, man.
Man, I was up on him years ago on the IRT.
I'm here for an interrogation. You've been called a graffiti artist and I wanna know why. All I see are scribble scrabble abstractions!
Yo... You know why Rammellzee's here, don't you?
YO! Jean, this is Ramellzee.
Right. Sure. And "Peace on earth, good will toward men."
Well ... Come what may... Merry Christmas, Mr. Wayne.
Yes, I suppose that we did.
I guess this mean we won.
You'll never guess.
Ah. "Who", may I ask, are you going "as"?
I'm tempted, but ... well ... it is an occasion for celebration, and ... umm ... Selina will probably be there ...
Mr. Wayne ... a reminder: Tonight is that loathsome party, hosted by that odious Mr. Shreck. May we RSVP in the resoundingly negative?
I think I'll take the stairs.
"Affair" ... yes, maybe ... if she ...
Selina ... more facets than Vicki, huh? Funny, but sort of mysterious...
I will relay the message.
'Fraid I can't. There's been a kidnapping ... Tell Selina ... Ms. Kyle ... that some business came up -- no, tell her some major deal fell through, she'll feel sorry ... No, no, here's what to do, just tell her ... let her know that I ... not in a dumb "Be my girlfriend way," but --
Which is why I hoped you'd snub him.
Sorry, Alfred, I have to get to the Plaza. You heard Penguin, he was practically begging me to show.
No, actually I feel worse.
I suppose you feel better now, sir.
Vichyssoise. Supposed to be cold, right?
It's vichyssoise, sir.
No, nothing, ah ... His parents ... I ... I hope he finds them.
Mr. Wayne ... Something wrong?
Wrong on both counts.
Don't be naive. The law doesn't apply to people like him! Or us --
First you're gonna shut up. Then you're gonna turn yourself in.
Seems like every woman you try to save ends up dead, or deeply resentful.
I tried to grab you -- save you --
You're the second man who killed me this week. But hey, no prob ... I've got seven lives left.
But a kiss can be even deadlier, if you mean it.
A kiss under the misteltoe. Mistletoe can be deadly, if you eat it ...
Hey stud: I thought we had something together.
I can't sleep either, lately. A little link, between us. But bottom line baby, you live to preserve the peace, and I'm dying to disturb it. That could put a strain on our relationship.
I just can't sleep at night. Exploding department stores keep me up. One ...
Wow, a real response and you're not even trying to get into my tights. But explain me ... If you're so down on "them" out there, why bust your bat-buns to protect 'em?
A "he-man"? Sure. They shine that beacon in the sky, then wonder what hole I crawl out of.
Good joke. Wanna hear another one?
Hanging on every word.
As I was saying: I'm a woman, and can't be taken for granted. Are you listening, you Batman you?
I'm -- sorry, I --
How could you? I'm a woman...
"Shreck's." You --
Where's the fire?
Maybe you're right.
I think you're jealous that I'm a genuine freak, and you have to wear a mask!
Ah, the direct approach. I admire that in a man with a mask. But you don't really think you'll ever win, playing it your way ..?
What're you really after?
Better than you know, Bat-boy.
Once you were their freak, now these clowns do your bidding. Must feel pretty good.
Things change. Hey, good to meet you. We'll be working hand in glove in Gotham's glorious future.
You're not the Mayor.
Touring the riot scene. Gravely assessing the devastation. Upstanding mayor stuff.
Admiring your handiwork?
I don't know. Till we figure it out, let's ... let's keep dancing.
... What do we do?
But a kiss can be even deadlier, if you mean ... it.
A kiss under the mistletoe. Mistletoe can be deadly, if you eat it ...
I don't know anymore, Bruce ...
Jesus, Selina, you're not the judge <u>or</u> the jury... I mean, just who do you think you <u>are</u>?
Now don't give me a killing-Max- won't-solve-anything speech, because it will. Aren't you tired of this sanctimonious robber baron always coming out on top? When he should be six feet under?
Same here. So why'd you come tonight?
Guess I'm sick of wearing masks ...
Y'mean take off our costumes?
There's a big, comfy California King over in Bedding. What say we ...
No hard feelings?
'S'okay, I had to go home, feed my cat.
Sorry about yesterday ... Some big deal came together, no, fell through, and --
What're you doing three dates from now?
Nor I, on the second.
I, ah ... never fool around on the first date.
Ah ... then you've come to the right lonely mansion.
It's the so-called "normal" guys who always let you down. Sickos never scare me. At least they're commited.
If I said yes, then you might think me a Norman Bates, or a Ted Bundy type ... and then you might not let me kiss you.
Well? Was "Vicki" right? About your difficulty with duality?
"Vicki." Ice-skater, or stewardess?
Well ... How can I put this. There were two truths ... and she had trouble reconciling them. Because <u>I</u> had trouble reconciling them. Vicki said.
And the truth frightened her?
Nope, I told her everything.
What went wrong? Hang on, I think I know ... You kept things from her.
Had one. Didn't work.
Executive Assistant. Secretary. Girlfriend?
Somewhat like the lonesome secretary syndrome, I'd suppose.
I'm sure he's wonderful company and all, but ... doesn't the gold- plated bachelor bit get a little ... stale?
Yes and no...
... and me. No, that's be me and me. Is that what I said?
"We"? You and...
... Maybe I'll watch it on TV.
Yeah? Me too...
Well, I'm... braver at night, if that's what you mean...
No darker than yours, Bruce.
You've got a dark side, Selina Kyle.
I detest violence, but ... Christmas complacency can be a downer, too.
You almost sound enthusiastic.
-- and it's gonna be a hot time in the cold town tonight.
I wouldn't be caught dead. No, it's probably how I would be caught. The Mayor stupidly took Cobblepot's bait --
You're not coming to that, are you? "The Relighting of the Tree" thing?
I heard on TV, "Catwoman is thought to weigh 140 pounds." How do these hacks <u>sleep</u> at night?
And it's not even accurate ... I mean, "Batman Blows It"? The guy probably prevented <u>millions</u> in property damage.
The news these days ... weird. People looking to superheroes for their peace of mind, and blaming their problems on super-villains ... instead of themselves, or their spouses at least.
Treat to be here.
I don't see how ... Anyway, it's a treat to find you out in the world, away from Ebeneezer Shreck.
Scare me? No, actually, I was just scaring myself ...
Selina. Hi. Didn't mean to --
I, ah ... didn't catch your last name.
Pouring myself into my work.
Well, I could ... free up some time...
Well that's a ... long story ...
No. And you don't seem like the type who takes orders from him.
You don't seem like the type who does business with Mr. Shreck.
Yes and no ...
Didn't I say that?
You mean mistook <u>me</u>?
Sorry. I mistook me for somebody else.
It does to me.
I am the light of this city. <u>And</u> I am its mean, twisted soul. Does it really matter who's the "mayor"?
Course you're feeling fine ... You almost made a monster the Mayor of Gotham City.
Ingenious costume. Let me guess ... Trust-fund goody-goody?
Yes, did -- did you injure yourself on that ski slope? Is that why you cut short your vacation and came back?
Wayne, I'll not stand for mud- slinging in this office. If my assistant were here, she'd already have escorted you out, to --
"Oswald" is linked to the Red Triangle Gang. I can't prove it but we both know it's true.
Scared of Oswald, are you? Why, if his parents hadn't eighty- sixed him you two might've been roomies, at prep school!
Not compared to that "Cobblepot" person you're promoting...
I'm not scared of you, Max.
Mayors come and go. And heirs tire easily. Really think a flyweight like you could last fifteen rounds with Muhammed Shreck.
Max, I'm gonna fight you on this. The Mayor and I have already spoken and we see eye to eye here. So --
If my life has had any meaning, that's the meaning.
Good time, too. Everyone but the bandits seem to be slacking off till after New Years'.
I'd offer you coffee, but my assistant is using her vacation time.
No. No glass on the inside.
Damn those Carny bolsheviks the other night, throwing bricks at my windows --
Hmm. Primitive ventilation.
One way to find out?
You killed me, Batman killed me, Penguin killed me. Three lives down. Got enough bullets to finish me off?
He <u>is</u> Batman, you moron.
Selina! Selina Kyle!? You're fired! And Bruce -- Bruce Wayne! Why are you dressed up as Batman?
Either you've caught a cold, or you're planning to kill me.
Sorry, Max. A die for a die.
Let's make a deal. <u>Other</u> than my blood, what can I off--
A half-pint. I'm talking gallons.
My blood? I ... I gave at the office.
Your blood, Max.
I don't know what you want, but I know I can get it for you with a minimum of fuss. Money, jewels, a very big ball of string...
The name is Oswald Cobblepot.
Me, domesticated? By you? I doubt it! You repulsive... awful... <u>penguin</u>.
Did I? Only 'cause my mom trained me to, with a man... any man, all men -- Corn dog!
I oughta have you spayed! You sent out all the signals!
I wouldn't touch you to scratch you.
Let's consummate our fiendish union!
I want in. The thought of busting Batman makes me feel all ... dirty. Maybe I'll give myself a bath right here ...
Well, a plan <u>is</u> forming ... A vicious one, involving the loss of innocent life ...
He napalmed my arm. He knocked me off a building just when I was starting to feel good about myself. I want to play an integral part in his degradation.
You're off the hook, Ozzie. But Batman is decidedly <u>not</u>.
Thanks. Jeez. Not used to this man-woman, cat-mouse business. Generally the babes flock to me, I tell 'em take a number.
You're quick. Mayor Cobblepot.
Y'mean frame him?
He'd have more power as a martyr. No, to destroy Batman we must first turn him into what he hates most. Meaning, us.
We're gonna disassemble his spiffy old Batmobile, then reassemble it as an H-bomb on wheels. Capiche? Yesterday's victor is tomorrow's vapor.
Oh, him again. He's already history -- check it out.
I have but one pet cause, today: Ban The Bat.
Are you perchance a registered voter? I'm also a mayoral prospect.
Huh? You're implying I'm some kinda psycho criminal?
Batman. The thorn in both our sides, the fly in our ointment.
Appetite for destruction? Contempt for the czars of fashion? Wait don't tell me ... Naked sexual charisma?
Down, Oswald. We have to talk. You see we've got something in common.
I'll warm ya! I got hot mitts --!
Women... nothing surprises me, Chip. Excepting your late mother... Who even knew Selina had a brain to damage? Bottom line: she tries to blackmail us, we drop her out a higher window. Meanwhile I got badder fish to fry. Yeah -- Oswald, please.
You buy this "blurry" business?
Yes. <u>Yes</u>. Boyfriend trouble ..?
She jumped. She'd been depressed.
I ... it was terrible, I leaned over, and accidentally knocked her, out --
Dad! Save yourself!
My lips are sealed.
But who could've ... no, don't say it.
Well, um... funny thing, your penguins... they're not responding to the launch command. Fact they're kind of turned around now... Like someone jammed our signal...
All is shrill, all is blight...
Silent night, violent night...
... eight, seven...
The Christmas Eve of Destruction -- !
Okay, you have a point. Plus, the hysterics are getting on my nerves.
I'm the one you want! Penguin, please! Ask yourself: Isn't it Max Shreck who manipulated and betrayed you? Isn't it Max, not Chip, whom you want to see immersed up to his eyeballs in raw sewage?
I don't. So, no.
Not Chip! Please! Penguin ... If you have one iota of human feeling, you'll take me instead.
You're coming with me, you Great White Dope! To die, way down in the sewer!
I think you'd feel out of place at my party. You see, it's for winners.
Max! Relax! Josh and Jen'll put a spin on this. We'll talk it over tonight, at your costume par--
Point is, listen to them. They've lost faith in old symbols. They're ready to bond with you, the icon of the future. If it works, don't fix it...
He didn't even lose a limb, an eyeball ... bladder control ..
Imagine: You'll have the ear of the media. Access to captains of industry. Unlimited poon- tang ...
Reclaim my birthright, y'mean?
Sidetracked? Oswald, this is your chance to fulfill a destiny that your parents carelessly discarded ...
I got my own ... <u>quest</u> to pursue up here. It's crucial I not get sidetracked, with some silly ...
... Want 'em to go apeshit. Nutso. Ballistic ... Do permanent damage to little old ladies. Loot, pillage, annoy people in a big way ... <u>Sounds</u> fun. But I ...
Precisely. But they must come and go via the plumbing ducts that I've provided. That shall be as sacred as the separation between church and state.
"You're doin' great, Mayor Cobblepot." "Your table is ready, Mayor Cobblepot." "I need you, Oswald. I need you now. That's the biggest parasol I ever --"
That's fine, Oswald. But to get the Mayor recalled, we still need a catalyst, a trigger, an incident. Like the Reichstag fire, the Gulf of Tonkin.
A platform? Lemme see ... Stop global warming. Start global cooling. Make the world a colder place. <u>Frigid</u> ...
Oswald: We need one more thing.
I could teach her my "French flipper" trick...
We need signatures. To overturn the ballot. I can supply those, Oswald.
Wonder if it's worth my time.
Max, elections happen in November. Is this not late December, or have I inhaled too much swamp gas in my time?
Yes, adulation is a cross to bear. God knows <u>I</u> know. But someone's got to supplant our standing-in- the-way-of-progress Mayor and don't deny it, Mr. Cobblepot, you've got the magic!
Bu ... wh ... I ... I mean ...
A big bag of fan mail? Filthy lucre? Wait don't tell me ... Is it a broad?
Don't look, Oswald. It's a surprise.
You won't regret this, Mr. Shreck.
You know what, Mr. ... Penguin-Sir? I think perhaps I could help orchestrate a little welcome-home scenario for you. And once we're both back home, perhaps we can help each other out ...
Fred. Fred? He's ... actually he's been on an extended vacation, and --
A lot of tape and a little patience make all the difference. By the way, how's Fred Adkins, your old partner?
If there were such documents -- and that is not an admission -- I would have seen to it they were shredded.
What about the documents that prove you own half the firetraps in Gotham?
Yawn. That coulda come from anywhere.
And exactly <u>why</u> am <u>I</u> gonna help <u>you</u>?
Most of all, I want to find out who I am. By finding my parents. Learning my "human" name. Simple stuff that the good people of Gotham take for granted.
Well it's not working.
No, just give you a splitting headache.
What, is that supposed to "hypnotize" me?
Quiet, Max. What do you think, this is a conversation?
My god ... it's true. The Penguin- Man of the sewers ... Please, don't h--
Actually this is all just a bad dream. You're home in bed. Heavily sedated, resting comfortably, and dying from the carcinogens you've personally spewed in a lifetime of profiteering. Tragic irony or poetic justice? You tell me.
Actually I have to split. Take a "personal day." You don't mind? Max, you're tops.
I damn well better be. In fact I want you to phone those goniffs over at Gotham Insurance and tell them --
Morning, Max. Bummer about the store. You insured?
Uh, Selina, this is, uh, Bruce Wayne.
That's my name, Maximillions. Don't wear it out, babe, or I'll make you buy me a new one.
Selina?! Selina ... Selina ...
Actually, it's a lot like that.
Okay, go ahead. Intimidate me, bully me if it makes you feel big. I mean, it's not like you can just kill me.
I must protect my interests, Ms. Kyle. And Interest Number One, is <u>moi</u>.
It's our secret. Honest. How can you be so mean to someone so meaningless?
And a very, very good one.
I'm no cat. I'm just an assistant. A <u>secretary</u> --
... Where did curiosity get the cat?
And who ... would you say this <u>to</u>?
Big giant <u>capacitor</u>. And that, instead of generating power it'll sort of be -- -- <u>sucking</u> power, from Gotham City, and storing it ... stockpiling it, sort of? Which, unless I'm being dense, is a novel approach, I'd say.
Well I figured that your password was "Finster." Your Pomeranian. And it was. And it's all very interesting, though a bit on the technical side, I mean about how the power plant is a power plant in name only since in fact it's gonna be one big giant...
Why, how industrious. And how did you open protected files, may I ask?
No, I am. Yes, I'm boning up for your Bruce Wayne meeting in the morning. I pulled all the files on the proposed power plant, and Mr. Wayne's hoped-for investment... I've studied up on all of it ... I even opened the protected files and --
Working late? I'm touched.
The boys need help.
In spirit only, I'm afraid.
It is the hearts of two good men whom I have had the honor of calling son. Take it, child. But I implore you, never open it. You look so like your mother.
What is it?
Find my brother Wilfred. Give him This. I have duties he must fulfill in my stead. Only family can be trusted.
I have been part of the greatest adventure ever know. I have found purpose here, and the family I could never have.
I came to give you your freedom, a chance to live the life you choose. The same gift you gave me.
Too late for what, dear child?
I'm sorry. I was too late.
As I've missed you. Sleep well, child.
It's good to see you again, Uncle. I've missed you.
I have been trying to reach Wilfred with no success. As one grows older, one yearns for family.
I guess they don't have fax machines on elephants.
You came to tuck me in. That's quite a switch. I am looking for my brother, Wilfred. He is first butler to the Maharajah of Mirajanpore. But Mirajanpore is a floating court, it travels across India, so Wilfred can be rather difficult to find.
I'm sorry, Uncle, I came to tuck you in. And...
Oh no, those things frighten me.
You certainly will not.
Eventually she married a young physician.
Uncle Alfred left for America. Much to my mother's dismay -
Joanna and I were in love in London. But when I realized our age difference was too extreme -
Ten years. Barbara isn't really me niece, sir. She's Joanna Clark's daughter.
How long has it been, Uncle Alfred?
Rather disappointed at how poorly I taught you proper housekeeping. And quite well, it seems. Thanks to you, son. Thanks to you all.
Alfred, are you...?
It appears, sir, that someone has stolen the batsignal.
What is it?
Passion. Of course. Find the photo of Ivy after the flower ball.
Glandular secretions from animals. Scents that create powerful emotions. Fear. Rage...
Advanced botany. DNA splicing. Recombinant animal plant patterns. Pheromone extractions.
Coming on line now, sir.
Pamela Isley. I was so attracted to her I couldn't reason clearly. I still can't. She used to work for Wayne Enterprises. Find a file.
First Ivy had an intoxicating effect on both Dick and me. Tonight my feelings spread to someone else.
That, sir, does not compute.
What seems to be the problem?
It's good to see you.
Right here, sir.
Alfred, old friend, I could use your help right now.
Remember this. And remember it always. I'm proud of you. And I love you too, son.
I love you, old man.
Everyone dies, Master Bruce. There's no defeat in that. Victory comes in fighting for what we know is right while we still live.
I've spent my whole life trying to beat back death. What good are all my heroics now if I can't save you?
Alfred, if I've never told you...I just want to say...
Not all heroes wear masks.
Attending to heroes? No sir. My Only regret is that I was never able to be out there with you.
Have you ever regretted your life working here, Alfred?
I've seen the best doctors--! A gentleman does not discuss his health. It's not civilized. I hope I've taught you at least that much, young man.
Alfred, I know you're sick -- I can get you the best doctors.
I am as well as can be expected.
No, my boy. I'm afraid none of us can.
But I can't can I?
Why, yes, actually. Death and chance stole your parents. But rather than become a victim, you have done everything in your power to control the fates. For what is Batman if not an effort to master the chaos that sweeps our world, an attempt to control death itself.
Alfred, am I pigheaded? Is it always my way or the highway?
Is there something wrong, sir?
Congratulations on your apprehension of Mr. Freeze. Batman monopolized the evening news.
Don't be silly, Alfred. After all, she's family.
Oh, but, sir. So much goes on-
There's a lovely inn just down --
Well, I hope you'll stay with us.
Secrets are a virtual prerequisite in this house, don't you think?
No apology necessary. That's the first time in thirty years.
I must have dozed off. My sincerest apologies, sir.
Despite all your talents, you are still a novice in the ways of family. Dick follows the same ends as you but gets there by his own course. You must learn to trust him. For that is the nature of family.
Don't tell me you're on his side. Again.
Perhaps the truth is you don't really trust anyone.
He's over-eager, impulsive. I can't trust him not to get hurt.
You are going back to school.
Hey, I'm the one who kicked Ivy's botanical butt. Personally. Me. I did.
Sometimes counting on someone else is the only way to win.
I recognized the accent.
Their new computer sciences division. How did you know?
I'm on break from-
Happy. You honestly don't know, do you? You can't even see what's in front of your own eyes.
Alfred's happy here.
Paying someone to prepare your meals and do your laundry and clean your dishes, you call that family?
Alfred and Bruce are like family.
Servants, Masters, it's ridiculous. Alfred is the sweetest, most noble man alive and he's subjugated all his life and dreams to someone else.
What are you talking about?
Alfred has supported me my whole life. Now I'm going to pay him back. I'm going to liberate him from his dismal life of servitude.
Just don't tell me you're hoping to run away and join the circus.
Street racing isn't exactly an acceptable major at Oxbridge. They kicked me out. it doesn't matter. I've won enough money to do what I've always dreamed.
You'd be surprised.
I started racing after my parents died. There was something about the speed, the danger, that took me out of myself, that made the hurt go away. You wouldn't understand.
I guess, the truth is I'm just not comfortable with the idle rich. Even when they try to act like heroes.
Hey, what's your problem?
Of course, Dick Grayson, ward of the fabulously wealthy Bruce Wayne. Why would you need a few hundred dollars?
This is to replace the bike I lost. I'll get you the rest.
Whatever you say, lady. It's all in a day's work for me.
I could have made it, you know. I didn't need your help.
My parents were killed in an auto accident ten years ago. Alfred has been supporting me ever since.
Al's main squeeze. Is she here? I'm about to scrape the bottom of my shoe off my tongue, right?
I'm so sorry to trouble you, but-
Please be looking for me.
Those targeting mirrors are frozen. The sun beam won't work.
Damn? Damn is not good.
It'll take the satellites about a minute to re-align, but...damn!
I don't know. It just feels right.
What exactly are you doing?
Pow! What! Kazow!
Be ready for anything.
I'm afraid to ask.
Crimefighter's rule number two.
Crimefighter's rule number one: never say that.
This is easy.
Batgirl, Baatgirl, Baatgirl.
Youwsa! Nothing but air.
Divide and conquer.
Alpha. Got it. What the hell is attack plan Alpha?
I didn't kill your wife.
Go on, kill me too. Just as you killed my wife.
I think not. There'll be no hot time in this old town tonight. You'll get a charge out of this.
You're loosing your cool
We have eleven minutes to stop Freeze And thaw the city.
Mr. Bane, I'll finish off the city. You, as they say in showbiz, are on. Take the boys and kill the kids. But bring me the Bat.
Freeze, you're mad. This capsule will slaughter thousands.
After you have frozen, your icy tomb will plummet back to Gotham.
I hate being lectured.
You were a great scientist once. Don't squander your genius on evil.
Don't make me kill you in front of the girl.
Winded, old timer?
From the other side of the equator-
If we could relay the sunlight-
Maybe he melted.
No sign of the snowman.
Kill her later. We've got work to do.
I guess we'll just have to kill her.
She knows who we are.
We gotta get those locks changed.
A poison kiss? You have some real issues with women, you know that? You just couldn't stand that she was about to kiss me. Couldn't stand that something might be mine and not yours. Could you?!
Why is she so desperate to kiss us? I'm betting her lips are poison.
What are you talking about?
Remember the victim at the airport. Toxins introduced through the mouth.
Just the beast.
No. Her case is too advanced. But maybe, someday, with more research-
Can he save her?
She's still alive. He's adapted his freezing technology to reverse McGregor's Syndrome. He's even found a cure for the early stages of the disease.
How did you...?
Me too. Great stems, though.
I'm totally over her. Positively.
Bad, yes. Guy, no. This is one majorly beautiful evil person.
I can't believe we were fighting over a bad guy.
I know. The feeling just vanished.
She's definitely part of this. It's weird, for a while Ivy was all I could think about. But then...
I can make it.
Pull back. You can't make the jump.
I'll borrow it from you. Four million - -
You don't have two million. Three million - -
He'll be here.
You think Freeze will take the bait?
Watch the first step.
How about, nice to see you? Glad you're here to save my life.
I thought you were going to stay in the museum and round up the thugs.
I was just hanging around.
No, Robin. He's going to jail.
Of course. He's going to steal the giant white diamond.
The new antiquities exhibit. The Second Sun of the Sudan.
The batcomputer tracks him heading for the Gotham Museum.
... A giant drilling truck burrowing under the city ...
It's the gear. Chicks love the gear.
This is all about fashion for you, isn't it?
Nightwing. Scourge of darkest evil.
Nice suit. And today you are?
Maybe your witless playboy persona works on every bimbo du jour but I am not the least bit titillated by your attentions. So back off or I'll have you in court quicker than you can spell sexual harassment. Got me?
I can't. But perhaps tonight, over dinner...I've just had an opening.
Physical perfection, charm and wealth tossed over for a dowdy spinster. How do you explain your behavior?
Although the Wayne Foundation is hosting the event, sadly I will be unable to attend. Thank you all. Good day, Doctor.
Tell me, billionaire, would you warm faster to my pleas if I looked more like Ms. January here?
People come first, Dr. Isley.
Acceptable losses in a battle to save the planet.
Your intentions are noble, but no diesel fuel for heat. No coolants to preserve food. Millions would die of cold and hunger alone.
Forget the stars. Look here, at the Earth, our mother, our womb. She deserves our loyalty and protection. And yet you spoil her lands, poison her oceans, blacken her skies. You're killing her.
I have here a proposal showing how Wayne Enterprises can immediately cease all actions that toxify our environment.
That lab was consumed by fire last week. how did you manage to escape?
I see you knew him.
We cut our support. A conflict of ideologies. Dr. Woodrue was a lunatic.
Actually, I already work for you. Or did. Your arboreal preservation project in South America.
What can I do for you, Doctor? A research grant? A hospital wing?
Dr. Pamela Isley.
They're overly protective. You're Not going to hurt me are you, Ms...
You were right. I get it. You're not the marrying kind. You've made your point. Goodbye Bruce Wayne.
Make a choice, Bruce. Her or me.
Bruce? What are you doing?
Dr. Isley. it was like I could feel you in the room. You're...enchanting. Gorgeous. The most beautiful woman I've ever seen. If you're..um... free...this evening.
I wish I knew.
You just called me Ivy. Who's Ivy?
I'm betting on you. You'll make someone a good husband one day. But I can't wait around forever. Don't answer now. Just think it over. Here's some food for thought.
I wouldn't bet on that.
But there's nothing you've done under the cover of darkness I couldn't learn to understand.
Wild doesn't exactly cover it.
I know you're a dedicated bachelor. That you've had a your wild nights.
Julie, I'm not the marrying kind. There are things about me you wouldn't understand.
We've been going out over a year now and...Okay, here goes. Bruce, I want to spend my life with you.
What? I'm sorry. You were saying...
You're not even listening to me.
Can I get some help over here?
Umm. What I mean is...no plans at the moment...
I knew you could handle it.
One question. When Batgirl and I rolled off the telescope, how come you didn't try and save us? It was the first time I fell and you weren't there to catch me.
You once said to me that being part of a team means trusting your partner. That sometimes counting on someone else is the only way to win. DO you remember?
You'd say anything to keep me away from her. To keep her for yourself.
She wants to kill you.
Is that it, Bruce? I'm under some magic spell?
She's infected us with some kind of pheromone extract-
And she did it all for me. For love.
Her name is Pamela Isley. I saw her talking to Gordon. She must have stolen his keys, altered the signal-
That's no batlight, it's a birdcall.
Oh but I am. For the first time in a long time. I'm through living in your shadow. All that ends right now.
She's clouded your mind. You're not thinking straight.
Hail the all-knowing Bruce Wayne. Here's what I know, she loves me, Not you and it's driving you crazy. It's why you stopped us from kissing. Because if you can't have her, nobody can.
Yes! Yes, I want her so badly I can taste it. That's the whole point. Look at us. Orphans. Isolated. Obsessed to the exclusion of life, love, family. We're perfect targets. She's done something to us, got us fighting over her somehow.
Or what? No one can capture Ivy but the big bad Bat. Crap! You just want her for yourself. Don't you? Answer me, damn it!
Dick, don't push me right now.
Like hell you do.
I'm late for the dedication. Then I go after Freeze and Ivy. Alone.
I checked the medical database. No one else is even close.
Yes. But Alfred's condition is less severe. Freeze's research says he cured a case like Alfred's. It just doesn't say how.
McGregor's Syndrome. That's what Freeze's wife had.
I'm scared, Dick. Maybe for the first time in my life. I'm really scared.
Talk to him, Bruce. There's nothing worse than losing someone without telling them how you feel.
You know Alfred. He'd never say Anything. But I can tell. Until you came along, Alfred was the only family I ever had. Without him, I don't know how I would have survived. He saved my life, Dick. And I've never told him.
But he's never said a word-
He's dying. And I can't deal with it.
Anybody want to tell us kids in the cheap seats who Joanna Clark is?
Of course. Alfred still keeps your mother's picture in his room.
You left your back wide open. Freeze could have killed you.
I got the diamond. Quell problemo, Bruce?
I'm fine. See. Me. here. Alive. How are we gonna work together if you're never going to trust me?
Dick, you were reckless. You could have been killed.
Whoa, I made a mistake. I'm sorry. Don't go all protective on me. It won't happen again.
Absolutely. Just as soon as you take ten hours training in the simulator.
We gonna trap ourselves a snowman?
I need the Wayne Diamonds.
< Maybe it's something in the water.
Let me get this straight. A brilliant citizen, disfigured by a horrible accident, re-emerges as a psychotic super-villain bent on theft, revenge and destruction. You see a pattern here?
He needs extreme cold to survive. His cryo-suit uses diamond enhanced lasers to keep him at zero degrees.
Presumed dead. No one knows.
What happened to his wife?
Somehow he survived. But the cryoslution mutated his body.
That's gotta hurt.
Prepare for a bitter harvest. Winter has come at last.
I'm hungry. I think I'll have poultry.
Inspired, Ms. Ivy.
The way to a boy's heart is through his ego. What strapping young hero could resist his very own...signal?
One kiss and you could lift the mask from his lifeless face. Their secret identities would be revealed. But how best to bait a brid?
As a team, the duncely duo protect each other. But the Robin is young. Impetuous. If I could get him alone-
That is far too merciful. Batman will watch his beloved Gotham perish, then I will kill him.
Can't we just ice them along with the rest of the citizenry?
You will distract the bat and bird while I prepare to freeze Gotham.
Adam and Evil.
I have created a race of plants with the strength of the deadliest animals. Once you have frozen mankind, my mutants will overrun the globe. The Earth will become a brave new world of only plants. And we shall rule them. For we will be the only two people left in the world.
Just what I had in mind. Everything dead on Earth except us. A chance for mother nature to start again. Plants and flowers are the oldest species on the planet yet they are defenseless against man. Sorry hon, this is for science. Behold the dawn of a new age.
Yes. I shall replay the world for sentencing me to a life without the warmth of human comfort. I will blanket the city in endless winter. First Gotham and then the world.
Kill them. Of course. But why stop there? Why should only Batman and Robin die while the society that created them goes unpunished?
Their bones will turn to ice. Their blood will freeze in my hands.
There was nothing I could do. Batman deactivated her. She's dead.
Where is my wife?
Make yourself right at home.
OK, OK. Ms. Ivy to the rescue. Now where do I find your brittle bride?
You will rescue my wife
Hold it. You never said anything about a wife, frozen or otherwise-
Fine. While I retrieve my diamonds, you and meatloaf will bring my wife to your lair. She's frozen in -
Trust me. Vegetable magnetism.
You leave Batman and Robin to me.
In my weakened state I am no match for the bat and the bird.
You are looking unseasonably hot. Let's go inside and grab your rocks.
My reserves are exhausted. I must have the gems that power my suit.
Dear daisy, don't despair.
I wonder if I can get a cell with a view of the gardens?
No gun. How disarming.
I always go a size smaller. Makes me look slimmer.
I love that belt. What are you, about a fifty Big and Tall?
Let's cool it for now. There's someone I want you to meet.
An enticing offer. But what does the lady want in return?
Well, I, my most unabominable snowman, have been impressed by you. In fact I propose a pairing. So I'm here to set you free.
I'd love to stand here all day and exchange fashion tips but I'm kind of pressed for time. So hand over the diamond, Garden Gal, or I turn you into mulch.
Listen, Captain Cold, the suit, maybe, even though silver went out in the 70's. But those boots are unforgivable. What is it with men?
Let me guess, Plant Girl? Vine Lady? Ms. Moss?
Hop away little bunny. Before I cool your jets. Permanently.
Forget your frosty femme. These lips are wet and ready to get frostbite.
You're skating on thin ice. My passion thaws for my bride alone.
What say we turn up the heat?
To be frozen. To never change. A life of perpetual ice-olation. There is little perfection in that.
Okay, my hair is brittle, my skin is dry and I don't care. I'd weather blizzards to have you. You're the most perfect man I've ever known.
I find that unlikely.
Freezy, I'm feeling...hot.
Sorry to disappoint you. But rubber lips are immune to your charms.
You're too late. Say bye-bye birdie.
Love you? I loathe your bipedal arrogance, your animal superiority. My only joy is knowing that even now my poison kiss is sucking the life from your ape-like face.
Then you never loved me?
You should have heeded your pointy- eared pal. These lips can be murder.
What do you mean?
Bad luck, I'm afraid. It's time to die, little bird.
One kiss, my love. For luck.
I've got to stop him.
Freeze has turned the new telescope into a freezing gun. He's about to turn Gotham into an ice cube.
Tell me and I'll kiss you.
Kiss me and I'll tell you.
Of trust. Tell me your plan.
How about dangerous curves?
I want us to be together. But I need to know you're serious about turning over a new leaf. I need a sign.
I'm glad you came. I can't breathe without you.
At you? Polly want a kiss?
Give it up. If you threw yourself-
Hello, Jason. I think I've had a change of heart.
Dr. Isley? Pamela? You look great. Especially for a dead woman.
Well, I can respect your opinion.
Join you? I've spent my life trying to protect plants from extinction and now you corrupt my research into some maniacal scheme for world domination. When I get through you won't be able to get a job teaching high school chemistry, do you hear me, you psycho?
Without your research, I could never have come this far. Join me. The two of us, entwined, side by side...
...Our original sponsor had no stomach for military applications. he cut the funding for our work -
You must show me your secrets, blossom, before I show you mine.
You have to tell me what you're doing with my Venom.
What exactly are you working on in there? What are those screams?
What do we have here? A lovely new supply of Venom. I'll just take this to my laboratory for further study.
Tonight's a good night.
All except the prototype with the sonar modifications you so disapprove of. But it hasn't yet been tested.
Claw Island. Nygma's headquarters. I'm sure that's where they're keeping Chase. Are all the Batsuits destroyed?
What now sir?
Exactly. Mr. E. Mister Edward Nygma.
And another name for Mystery?
How about, MR. E.
Of course. 13 is M....MRE.
Letters in the alphabet.
Precisely. So this number is probably some kind of calling card.
Recognition, of course.
What do maniacs always want?
But 1, 3, 1, 8, & 5. What do they mean?
All the answers are numbers.
...Batman, Alfred. I'm Batman.
No demons, son. Your monsters are here. Until you fact that, I fear you will spend your life fleeing them.
I remember a bat. A monster. A demon. Chasing me. Oh my God, Alfred.
Bruce. Son. Listen to me. You are a kind man. A strong man. But in truth you are not the most sane man.
There's one other thing. I feel..
Perhaps the fall...
I'm Batman? I remember my life as Bruce Wayne. But all this. It's like the life of a stranger.
Dick has run away. They have taken Dr. Meridian. And I'm afraid they found the cave, sir. It's been destroyed.
As well as can be expected, I guess. Give me the bad news.
Old habits die hard. Are you alright?
Not that young. It's been a long time since you've called me that.
How are you feeling, young man?
How? As Batman, knowing she wants me? Or as Bruce Wayne and hope...?
Perhaps. Perhaps not. Why not ask the lady?
She's the first woman in a long time that's... No. She's the first woman ever. And she loves Batman. Not Bruce Wayne. If I let go of Batman I'll lose her.
Could I let Batman go? For Dick. For me. Could I leave the shadows? Have a life. Friends. Family...
Why do I keep doing this?
Jack Napier's dead. My parents are avenged. The Wayne Foundation contributes a small fortune to police and crime prevention programs.
Which `they' might that be, sir?
Maybe they're right.
I shall be near at hand. Should you need me. And sir, I know it's difficult but try and have a good time.
Too much wealth. Too fast. Half of Gotham zombied-out. A technology that self destructs. He's protecting more than industrial secrets, Alfred.
_No_, sir. _The_ _other_ _car_!
Not the Jaguar. The _other_ car.
He boosted the Jag? Is that all?
Actually, he took the car.
He ran away?
I'm afraid Master Dick has... gone traveling.
Is he all right?
Sorry to bother you, sir. I have some rather distressing news about Master Dick.
Don't be ridiculous.
No. You said I. I killed them.
He killed them. Two-Face. He slaughtered that boy's parents.
What did you say?
It's happening again. Just like my parents. A monster comes out of the night. A scream. Two gunshots. I killed them.
Take any three you like. After you get settled we can...
Ninety-three, including the sauna.
Gee, I'm not sure. Alfred? How many rooms? Total?
I remember the bat, though. His scream. Those eyes. i was sure the fear would kill me. In time I came to believe that if I became a monster, that if I was feared, I wouldn't be scared anymore. I was wrong. They think I became Batman to fight crime. I became Batman to fight the fear. And instead I became the fear.
I don't know, sir. Your dear parents. Suddenly gone. So much loss...
...The night Batman was born. What was I doing in the fields that night, Alfred? What sent me running out into that storm? I keep dreaming about it but I just can't remember.
Your parents' wake. Rain fell like tears.
Do you remember the night I fell into that cave and the bat chased me?
Apology hastily retracted.
I wonder if she'd go out with me.
If I misinterpreted your interest in the lady, I humbly apologize--
She has an excellent mind.
I believe you said the same thing about the Batmobile.
It'll never work.
A few hitches sir, but I'm confident we'll have a prototype in no time.
How's the sonar coming, Alfred?
Hardly a worry, sir.
Then you'd have nothing to complain about.
...Would it be a terrible imposition to ask you to take better care of your equipment?
It's a wonder you sleep at all.
I think they're getting worse.
The dreams again, sir?
Four seconds from...
Just checking, young sir.
Up here, Al.
Master Wayne's dead wives.
How come this is the only locked door around this museum? What's back there?
May I help you, Master Grayson?
Big house. How many rooms?
How ya doin', Al?
Welcome, Master Grayson. I'm Alfred.
Did Two-Face call him Bruce?
Help Chase. I'll be back.
Maybe you just haven't met the right woman...
I haven't had much luck with women...
You like strong women. I've done my homework. Or do I need skin-tight vinyl and a whip?
You are direct, aren't you?
We could give it a try. I'll bring the wine, you bring the scarred psyche.
I'm not the kind of guy who blends in at a family picnic.
My life's an open book. You read?
We all wear masks.
I don't mind the work. Pity I can't see behind the mask.
Try a fireman. Less to take off.
Now black rubber.
What is it about the wrong kind of man? In grade school it was guys with earrings. College, motorcycles and leather jackets.
It's the car, right? Chicks love the car.
A girl cannot live by psychoses alone.
Are you trying to get under my cape, Doctor?
I wish I could say my interest in you was purely professional...
Last night at the circus. I noticed something about Dent. His coin. He's obsessed with justice. It's his Achilles' heel. It can be exploited.
He's home. I sent the signal.
I didn't know that. See? You _are_ interesting. And call me Chase. By the way, do you have a first name? Or do I just call you bats?
Bats aren't rodents, Dr. Meridian.
Let's just say I could write a hell of a paper on a grown man who dresses like a flying rodent.
I'm flattered. Not every girl makes a super-hero's night table. You might have some interesting insights into Two-Face.
...dual personalities. Abnormal psychology. Washington's poster child for the criminally insane. I read your work.
And you are?
_Two_ million dollars waiting to be transferred from the _Second_ Bank of Gotham on the _22nd_ How could Harvey? _Two_-Face resist?
Oh please. You're blind as a bat.
I see without seeing. To me, darkness is as clear as daylight. What am I?
For _me_? Really? Tell me.
Wait. I have a riddle for you.
Excellent. See. Who says a guy in a rubber suit can't be smart? Well, it's been grand. Sorry you all have to die now.
Death. Death. Without taste, sound and all around us. Because there is no way for me to save them or myself. This is one giant death trap.
No more tricks, Edward. Release Chase and Dick. This is between you and me.
Welcome to my parlor said the Riddler to the Bat. How's tricks?
Actually, I like to divest just before a major re-capitalization.
I notice you've sub-divided your B coupons. Feeling a little light on principle?
No grape could be more intoxicating than you, my dear. But we make due. To your charms. Skol.
Gracious even in defeat. How vaguely disappointing. When all this could have been ours together.
What? Oh, it's very impressive.
The press were just wondering what it feels like to be outsold, outclassed, and generally outdone in every way... And what light through yonder window breaks? `Tis the east. And you are...
What? Oh, Edward. Hi. Congratulations. Great party-
So glad you could come.
No. Don't leave me! My invention! I need you!
We'll talk some other -
Wait. You can't go.
Call my secretary, she'll set something up. Factory looks great, folks. Keep up the good work.
Precisely. What's on all our minds? Brainwaves. The future of Wayne Enterprises is Brainwaves!
Mr. Nygma, you'll forgive me for being rude. But what exactly is on your mind?
What? Ah yes. Of course. I'm sorry. It's just that...you're my idol. And some people have been trying to keep us apart.
I'm gonna need that hand back, Ed.
Nygma. Edward Nygma. You hired me. Personally. Just like I tell everyone. Well, we've never actually met, but your name was on the hire slip.
Um...I'm pretty sure I'm Bruce Wayne. And you are?
Bruce Wayne. In the flesh.
Chase. There's something I need to tell you--
What are you talking about?
I always thought it was the bat that scared me that night that changed my life. But it wasn't. The real fear was hiding underneath: what I read in the journal, that my parents' deaths were my fault. That's what I couldn't remember. That's the crime I've been paying for all these years.
...Not the bat?
Oh God, Bruce, you were a child. You weren't responsible.
The last entry read, Bruce insists on seeing a movie tonight. Bruce insists. I made them go out. I made them take me to the movie. To that theater... It was my fault. I killed them.
You do know. Try.
What does it say? What hurts so much, Bruce? What does the book say?
My parents are laid out in the library. Their skin smells like talcum powder. I'm so small. My father's diary is on his desk like always. I'm opening the book. Reading. I'm running out into the storm. The book is in my hands. I can't hear my screams over the rain. I'm falling...
I don't want to remember!
Your memories are repressed. They're trying to break through. Relax. Try to remember-.
Okay, tiger, take it slow. You going to give me your pin or something?
There's something I want to talk with you about. It's...Well, we.. I...
Excuse me, boys. I'd hate to stop this testosterone flood on my account-
And the beast slouches towards Bethelem.
Spare me the diagnosis, okay? You're being ridiculous. I can't be jealous of Batman. Can I?
Oh God, Bruce. You're still jealous.
So how goes your `scholarly' pursuit of Batman?
Keep me off the couch, Doc. Your fees are a little rich for me.
If I didn't know better, I'd say you were sulking.
Rage. Anger. Passion. Pain.
In a sense we are all two people. The side we show in daylight. And that side we keep in shadow.
You want me close but you won't let me near. What's the terrible, dark secret you're protecting everyone from?
Throw up that ridiculous superficial mask. If you're jealous...
Why do you do that?
What do you want me to say? That I'm not attracted to him?
I'd say this goes a little beyond taking your work home.
Come on, Bruce. This is what I do for a living.
Why do I feel like the other man, here?
Find anything interesting?
They've changed. The dreams, I mean. There's a new element I don't understand. A book. Black. Covered in leather....
A lot of what happened is jagged. Pieces missing. I can't really remember. I just get flashes. Usually in my dreams. I'd kind of gotten used to them. At least accepted them....
Sorry. I haven't even had time to unpack. Instant coffee okay?
The style of the letters I'm getting matches those found at the crime sites. Why would The Riddler be sending me riddles? Who's your decorator? U-Haul?
I said I'm sure he did.
He sure did.
You could say he kind of dropped out of the sky and bang-. I think he felt it too.
Fast work. You just moved here.
Well, I met someone...
Bruce, much to my surprise, you seem like a really great guy...
Look, I'm rock climbing Sunday. How about coming along?
Don't believe it. I'm just skin deep.
The glib, cavalier routine, it really is an act, isn't it?
Me? I'm easy. Especially after a couple of martinis.
I don't get you Bruce Wayne.
That kid is amazing.
What? This isn't normal?
Like normal folks.
I'm sorry. Who are you?
I'm surprised you aren't blind by now.
And into a black dress.
But I'm going to have to get you out of those clothes.
Would you? I'm not so sure.
Look, I'd love to keep chatting-
That's usually my line.
No insights here, doc. Just trying to get comfortable on your couch. Oops. Times up.
You understand obsession better than you let on.
To kill me.
The letter writer is obsessed with you. His only escape may be...
It's a stretch but I'll manage.
What do you know about obsession?
So, this Riddler, he's dangerous?
I think the question would be, do you have a thing for bats?
So what you're saying, this guy's a total wacko, right?
Patient apparently suffers from acute obsessional syndrome with potential homicidal styles. Work better for you?
Wacko? That a technical term?
My opinion. This letter writer is a total wacko.
Me? No. Only things that need calming in my dreams are the Rockettes.
She's a Malaysian dream warden. She stands sentry while you sleep and calms your dreams. Need one?
Still play with dolls, Doctor?
On occasion. Usually at night.
The infamous Wayne charm. Does it ever shut off?
Just ones this beautiful.
Psychiatrists make you nervous?
Somebody's been sending me love letters. Commissioner Gordon thought you might give me your expert opinion.
How can I help you, Mr. Wayne?
Chase is coming for dinner. Why don't you join us.
Bruce, you can't.
Exactly. And once you'd killed him you'd be lost. Like me. All this has to be a choice. Otherwise...it's a curse.
And when you finally get Two-Face?
But what about all the good we can do? There are monsters out there. Gotham needs us.
Dick, let go. Revenge will eat you alive. Trust me. I know.
I saved your life. You owe me. So either you let me be your partner or I'm going after Harvey on my own.
We don't kill. Killing is what damns you. It-. What am I talking about? This conversation is over. You're going away to school.
...I missed Two-Face by a heartbeat. When we catch him, you gotta let me kill him!
How about Richard Grayson, college student?
You have a real gratitude problem. You know that, Bruce? I need a name. Batboy? The Dark Earl? What's a good side kick name?
What the hell did you think you were doing?
Save the sermons about how great you want my life to be, okay, Bruce? If it weren't for Batman my parents wouldn't be dead. You don't get it, do you? This is all your fault.
You don't understand. It's an addiction. You fight night after night, trying to fill the emptiness. But the pain's back in the morning. And somewhere along the way it stops being a choice. I want better for you.
Back off, man.
What I do isn't about revenge.
Me and my brother Chris were putting money aside so our folks could retire. Dad's knee was going. Chris was engaged, you know that? Two-Face took...everything. Now I can pay him back.
I need to be part of this.
Look, spare me the sermons, okay. You're just some rich guy who is trying to do a good deed. You don't even know me.
Listen, Dick. Killing Two-Face won't take the pain away. It'll make it worse.
I got no place at the circus without my family. I'm going to get a fix on Two-Face. Then I'm going to kill him.
Where will you go? The circus is halfway to Metropolis by now.
I figure telling that cop I'd stay here saved me a truckload of social service interviews and good will. So no offense but thanks. See ya.
Okay. I'm outta here.
You're right, Edward. I didn't mean to be impolite. Please.
Can't tell if you don't say please.
Who is The Batman, Edward?
Yesssssss. I know!
Dr. Burton tells me you know who Batman is.
How could I forget?
It's Dr. Meridian. Chase. Do you remember me?
Who is it?
Of course you are. And what a grand pursuit you must be. What do you think of my new invention?
I don't think so.
...Fired...your fired...your fired. You understand?! Fired!!
Yo. Charlie. Gimmie an order of brain deep-fry. Extra well done. Hold the neurons. Patient exhibits symptoms of psycho neural overload. Notation: obviously higher settings can be dangerous to the subject. Riddle me this, Fred. What is everything to someone and nothing to everyone else? Your mind of course. And now mine pumps with the power of yours. New from Brain-bok. Da pump. Think faster. Reason higher. Out-cog-nate every homey on the court of life. Da pump. Yeah. Ho! Mark. I sense an odd penchant for the anagramatic. The acrostic. The crypto-graphic. What doth this bode? Answer me Marcutio, you little runt. Fred, I must confess you were a wonderful appetizer. Simply divine. But now I yearn for a meal of substance. The main course. A wide and varied palette. Ah, to taste the mind of a hero. A nobleman. A poet. A chick in a short skirt wouldn't be so bad either.
What the hell is going on here?
I'll show you it works.
Hell. Might even bring old Stickley here a few extra bucks. Huh, Fred?
...The Box can change their lives. Our stock coupons will spike.
Paranoid? The psychotic?
Why be brutalized by an uncaring world? My RES Box will give Joe Q Public a realm where he is king. Not that someone like you would need it. Someone so intelligent. Witty. Charming. But for the lonely, the...
Let me ask you something, Bruce. What is man's greatest tool?
I really do apologize, Mr. Wayne. His project was terminated this morning...
Never heard of a double-cross?
Wait! You said you'd let me go!
Just call us Harvey. Can we get you a sandwich? A soft drink? Given all the trouble we caused you, how about we cut you in for a share of tonight's haul?
Uh, yeah. Thanks, Mr..uh...Face.
That floor has got to be very hard. Is that better?
The coin _wants_ to decide.
Please. I swear I won't say noth-
What say we flip for it?
I got family. ...Please.
Might. Might not. Could say we're of two minds on the subject.
...You gonna kill me?
_We_ sure are.
You sunk my battleship.
A miss. And my favorite vitamin, I might add.
Oh yes, and certainly _WE_ will!
We want to dust him. We truly want to dust him bad.
You're a genius.
Go ahead. You can say it.
Kill me? Well, alright. Go ahead. Take the empire. All yours. Hell, Harv, old pals. I'll kill me for you.
Why do we need you? You only come between us. We can be the smartest person in Gotham City. We want the empire for ourselves. Time's up, laughing boy.
Oh my God. Jim Morrison was right.
Don't bogart that 'trode.
Not until you do that thing I like. On se tue pour des mesnonges. J'ai gache ma vie... Woah. Harsh toke.
Haven't you had enough? Don't Think And Drive.
Sure, E = MC squared. Until you factor in more than three dimensions. Then... Damn. Hit us again.
Here. Get a good seat.
Where are you sending Batboy this time?
Addictive isn't it? Just Say No. Until I say yes. A little fringe benefit of working with me. Now here's the concept, counselor. Crime. My I.Q., your AK-47. You help me gather production capital so I can produce enough of these to create an empire that will eclipse Bruce Wayne's forever. And, in return I will help you solve the greatest riddle of all. Who is Batman?
So not everyone can be a poet. Still, I respect the sentiment.
Let's see if you bleed green.
Harvey. You need me. Since you've gotten out of Arkham, you've managed, what? To bungle stealing a safe? Wreck a statue? And, correct me if I'm wrong here, but weren't you outsmarted by an acned acrobat at the circus?
A man with a death wish.
Yet so bright and chipper and conservative! It's so you. And yet so _you_! Very few people are both a summer _and_ a winter. But you pull it off nicely.
Congratulations. You get to die on the dean's list.
You _are_ Two-Face, you would need to face both rivers, both uptown and downtown simultaneously. Only one spot in Gotham serves these bi- zonal, bi-coastal needs...
How'd you find us?
Actually, I wanted to talk to Batman. Pass that on to Mr. Wayne, would you?
Mr. Wayne is out for the day.
Alexander Knox. Gotham Globe.
The small one.
Which bathroom is that, sir?
You know, if you cut your bathroom in half, you'd have my apartment.
I'd say about thirty feet, sir.
How high up would you say that is?
If not for you I never would've made it. You know that. My own parents couldn't have... ... The boy, Alfred. You'll both be provided for. Don't let all this got to waste.
Don't ever say that, sir. Don't ever believe it.
How long's it been, Alfred? A quarter of a century? It seems like yesterday. I guess we ended up doing more harm than good.
Respectfully, sir... there'll never be another one like you.
I know the feeling. It won't last. He's a long way ahead of where I was at his age.
Upstairs. He's quite docile.
Where's the boy?
... Very good, sir.
It's all right, Alfred. Everything's under control.
Thank you, Alfred. I hope you'll excuse me. It was a great pleasure meeting you. And you.
Excuse me, sir. Commissioner Gordon was compelled to leave - -very unexpectedly. He asked me to convey his regrets.
Bruce, we're both murderers. Think how many people you've killed by letting me live.
You know, we should've sat down and had us a little heart-to-heart. I bet we would have got on famously.
Batman! Don't you even recognize your old pal Jack? After all... ... You made me what I am today.
What are you talking about?
Gosh, I could kill you, but then you'd miss my party. And you, Batman -- you're the guest of honor!
Take me. Let the boy go.
Like your boyfriend. He's kinda hot.
I had to save you, Vicki. I -- -- Please trust me.
You could've killed him, you know. You could've killed the Joker.
Is this what you wanted?
If you don't mind my asking... Who's close to you?
I don't want to jeopardize anyone close to me.
I just can't absorb it all. This place, the equipment. What it must have cost. Why all the secrecy? Why do you wear the mask?
No. Every product contains one component. The elements react in combination. Hair spray won't do it. But hair spray and perfume and lipstick will. Untraceable. It's very elegant.
That can't be right. That would mean every shipment of every product is poisoned. We'd all be dead.
They've got it all wrong. They're watching the warehouses, the loading docks, looking for a tamperer. The Joker is supplying tainted ingredients at the source.
Photo database. I'll do your photos now.
What is that?
So did I, once. But I kept coming back, and... I guess I became the thing I feared most.
I loathe bats.
They don't come down here. They're afraid of the lights.
Exploring. In the woods. Many years ago. -- I was a solitary child.
How'd you find this place?
That's why I wear a target on my chest.
It doesn't protect your head, though.
Better. It's not on the market yet.
What is this stuff? Kevlar?
Well, I've certainly enjoyed it. -- What's that?
Quite a while. I took the scenic route.
... How long have I been out?
... Where are you taking me?
Thank you, Vicki.
I'll take you with me.
How do I know you won't keep them all?
All right, I'll develop the photos. Anything I don't want is yours.
Look, I appreciate what you did for me. But this is my job. And I'm keeping those pictures.
The Joker is a murderer. And you were as good as dead. So --
I won't let you have it.
I just wanted to distract them. I wasn't trying to get a picture of you.
I'll have to ask you for that film.
Well -- I think you might consider
...Not even a 'thank you'?
... A hundred and eight?
How much do you weigh?
Too many people. Come on! SHIELDS!!
Can't we --
He won't kill her. -- GODDAMMIT!
What about the girl?
Shouldn't we --
I know. I called them.
GET IN THE CAR!!
Alfred, bring something for Mr. Knox -- I'll have one, too.
Yeah, a drink. 'Civilized,' right?
Do you want a drink?
Because I... ... Because she'd never speak to me again.
Tell me, Knox. If you've got the story, why haven't you printed it?
See, I don't know how it happened... she's a smart girl and you are an extraordinary screwed-up guy... but she's in love with you.
Then stay away from Vicki. That's all I want, man. I just want your word.
I can't do that. Not while the Joker's still at large.
I want you to hang up the suit. And I want you to stay away from Vicki.
What is it you want?
That's how it is, chum. One column - and I can bring all this tumbling down. I can take you off the streets for good.
You're just back from Corto Maltese. I saw your combat photos. Quite a departure for you.
"This is Miss Vale." -- That felt redundant.
I might consider it if you introduce me to Miss Vale.
Great. Give me a grant.
Bruce Wayne. -- I've read your work. I quite like it.
I assume in my usual charming manner I've just insulted the host. Alexander Knox.
Vicki. Do you love half of me? Or all of me?
I don't, but... I do. It's just... I love you, Bruce. I don't want you to...
Ohhhh... You don't mean that.
I don't know why I'm doing this. I half wish you'd stay a cripple.
In all these years... Why couldn't I see how it wold turn out?
I'm frightened of you, Bruce. I'm frightened for you.
All this apparatus, Vicki... This house, and the money, and the power ... It was never mine. It was something I inherited. Bruce Wayne was something I inherited. All I ever hoped for was someone who could see through Bruce -- who could see me -- and not be frightened.
Hang on. I have to leave a message.
I've had an automatic tracer on this number ever since he tracked you to the museum.
How can you do that if she's already off the line?
Finding out where she is.
I'm sorry, she hung up. What are --
... Where are you calling from?
Keep her on the line!
The does it. It's going to be this weekend.
"It worked for Van Gogh. Let's kiss and make up."
I feel naked without it.
Oh, Bruce. Don't tell me you carry it around with you.
Very thoughtful. Don't touch it.
It's like the last time. He sent me a present before he --
Sometimes... I don't know if there's enough of me left to save.
Bruce, at the rate you're going, you can't even save yourself.
What if I could save a handful? -- What if I could save one?
You're one man. You can't save everybody.
Money makes money, Vicki. The foundation runs itself -- I'm extraneous to the process.
I don't understand it. You can do so much good for people. As Bruce Wayne.
No one would miss me.
So we just pretend none of this ever happened. We never met. We -- -- You're going to get yourself killed, Bruce. You know that, don't you?
I'm serious, Bruce. We have to -- !
Who's this 'Bruce'? Are you trying to make me jealous?
... I know it's you, Bruce. I'm not going to talk to you unless we can discuss it...
Vicki?... This is Batman. I thought I'd call and see how you're doing.
I wish you'd...
I realize... the way things have gone between us... ... I wish you'd reconsider.
Well, Bruce -- I don't think -- that would be possible.
I'm sorry I had to stand you up today. I'd like to make it up to you.
Yes, Bruce -- I'm here --
I know it's late. I -- Are you there?
... Looks like a convention.
All street mimes should be executed.
Mm-hmm. Lunch. Not even dinner.
I said I'd call you the minute I got free. And I did -- And here we are.
To tell you the truth, I'd just about given up waiting.
Then there's one thing in the world you don't do very well. And I know what it is -- Now you'll have to kill me.
I don't sing very well.
... We could try that.
Maybe we should just kiss.
God. You would. Come on, Bruce. I just want to get two drinks in you. As an experiment.
I'll take you home if you'd like.
But it's not fair. I'm half drunk and you're not even --
Vicki, if I say anything cryptic, or... ambiguous, I think you should put the most flattering possible interpretation on it. Because even if it doesn't sound that way... that's how I'll mean it.
I'm sorry, Bruce, I Just can't seem to get a handle on this conversation.
I see. If I know how you really feel, I won't like you as much.
As much as I do. It's not that. I don't want to be depressing, that's all.
In other words, what right do I have to talk about terror.
Bruce, really, when I say these things I don't mean to criticize you.
Well, Bruce, some types are a little more obvious than others.
There's terror everywhere. If you train yourself to look for it.
What did you see?
Well. A couple of years ago when their president was requesting aid I went down there for Newsweek. The beaches were nice. And at nights -- they had a band -- I danced on the hotel patio. Of course I never saw what was really happening there. When the war broke out I had to go back. And I promised myself that this time... I wouldn't look away.
Odd desire for anyone.
Neither had I. Odd desire for a woman, I guess.
That's a tough one. Have you ever seen combat?
Two drinks and I start swinging from the rooftops. Look, I bore myself silly. Let's talk about you. How the hell did you wind up in Corto Maltese?
Too much work. I'm not really the physical type -- Thank you, Alfred.
Do you sail?
Good. With any luck we'll run into each other.
As far as I know.
I don't... seek publicity -- Will you be staying in Gotham for a while?
I don't know. I'm just a D.A. I don't have access to all you expert sources.
Do you still think the Joker cares about money??
We've told him we'll deal. What could he possible have to gain by --
Then for God's sake, Harvey, cancel the anniversary celebration.
Good. A bomb. On a blind tip from Bruce Wayne -- We do have laws.
I suggest a nice big bomb.
All right, Bruce, what do you suggest?
He'll be ready when you do. Remember what happened at the apartment.
We'll raid the Ace the moment we get a warrant.
It's a detour. They're backed up for blocks!
MOVE! Can't you do something??
They'll be sorry. They'll be sorry. MOVE OUT!
Boss! Jesus! They've --
SOMEBODY'S KILLED THE --
SOMEBODY'S KILLED THE POWER!!
Take 'em! I want his head!
We got 'em!
About how pretty you are, pretty boy. Maybe he'd like to know --
What are you talking about?
Got it all figured, huh? Grissom just sits back and hands you the reins. -- Maybe he don't know what we know.
Why, Eckhardt. You should be thinking about the future.
I answer to Grissom, punk. Not to you.
Eckhardt... our problems are your problems.
I'm on top of it. If there's a problem --
Don't let your job interfere with your business. -- Someone's been talking to Harvey Dent.
Sorry. We had another bat sighting.
I missed you, Lieutenant.
Do you want this money or don't you? Now shut up! Shut up --
You shouldn'ta turned the gun on that kid, man. You shouldn'ta --
No wonder you're such a chickenshit. Now shut up. There ain't no bat.
My brother's a priest, man.
God! How old are you? There ain't no bat.
There was no blood, man. My brother says... all the bad things you done... they come back and haunt you...
No shit. It was all over the pavement.
Five stories, straight down. There was no blood in the body.
Gimme a break, will you? Shut up.
That ain't what I heard. That ain't what I heard at all. I heard the bat got him.
Look, Johnny Gobs got ripped and walked off a roof, all right? No big loss.
I dunno, man. After what happened to Johnny Gobs - -
What are you, scared of heights?
Let's beat it, man. I don't like it up here.
HA! That's the best part. I CAN'T!!
Jack - - please - - WIPE THAT LUNATIC GRIN OFF YOUR FACE.
JACK? JACK? DO I LOOK LIKE A JACK?
Jack, listen -- we'll cut a deal --
I've died once already. It wasn't so bad -- In fact I recommend it.
It's not the girl, Jack. Sooner or later you would've tried to take me. You may get me now, but your life won't be worth a dime.
Is that what you "heard"?
Jack? Thank God. I can't believe it's you. I heard you'd been --
It's me. "Sugar Bumps."
Oh, Jack. -- Don't forget your lucky deck.
Because I want someone I can trust.
Why do you need me to handle a simple break-in?
Very good idea, Jack. In fact -- -- I'd like you to handle this operation personally.
Okay, a break-in. Trash the office, make off with the books ... "Industrial espionage."
Nobody wants a war, Carmine. If we can't do business, we shake hands and part friends.
And what happens if we say no?
I've considered that possibility.
I don't like taking orders from Grissom. And I especially don't like taking orders from Grissom's goon.
Goddammit, I expect to be treated like and ARTIST. GET OFF MY SCREEN!!
Please! We'll talk. Just tell us what you expect.
Ten million dollars. Ten mi -- YOU CHEAPSKATES! I've just wiped out the stock market. I've cost you billions! I want ten million and one.
All right, then. Here's the deal. Total amnesty... and the sum of ten million dollars, payable in --
Huh. Demands. Well, gents, this is kinda embarrassing, but... I'm having such a swell time, I just haven't thought any up.
I'd like to read a prepared statement. 'While this administration remains vehemently opposed to terrorism in any form, we are prepared to negotiate any reasonable demands which will guarantee the safety of the populace.'
Joker here. Can we talk?
Miss Vale, was it something I said? Do you want to sniff my flower?
I'll see you burn. I'll see you dead -- GET AWAY FROM ME!!
What? I improved her a little...
You SCUM! You SICK FILTH!... You DID THAT to her!
Alicia! Come here, have a seat. Show Miss Vale why you wear the mask.
... Why the mask?
Strong stomach, huh? I like that in a woman -- Maybe we can do business after all.
I've seen worse. Much worse.
... Behind the makeup?
Maybe we should start with a portrait of the artist. People might like to see the face behind the makeup.
A visual record, yes. A before-and- after kind of thing. This could make your reputation.
And you want a --
Unfortunate, but I think we can work around it.
... Thank you.
Holy shit. Holy...
God yes, Allie. I've gotta say -- that was the ballsiest move I ever...
Yeah. Yeah. Little winded. DID YOU SEE THAT?!
LOOK! IT'S BRUCE!! Allies -- the balloons. We've got to find some way to tell him!
What do you say? Let's head for the lights.
Yeah. Deja vu.
Couldn't turn down the job, huh? A girl could get hurt this way.
Jesus, Vicki! Where is it??
Allie... he wants to tell me. I had a roll of film. His face was on it. He knew that -- And he let me keep.
Vicki. We got a wealthy millionaire here... who dresses up like a bat. He goes out at night and swings around -- in his cape -- on a rope. CRAZY BAT-STARD!
He's not crazy.
Allie, he's not.
The guy's bats all right. He's bat shit crazy. He -- -- I can't believe it. I was right!!
Bruce Wayne is out of his mind. Next time you call him up and he can't go out Friday night - - think it over.
I've had it with you. I'm leaving.
Right. And they know him. And that's why it would never occur to them for a minute that their old buddy Bruce puts on a cape at night and goes out looking for --
Alexander... I know you.
... Okay, then, I have a confession to make. I'm the Batman.
He's best friends with Jim Gordon and Harvey Dent. They would know.
... Oh? Why is that, Vicki?
Allie, I know exactly why you're doing this.
Everybody needs a hobby. You explain it, Vicki. He walks out on his own party. Half an hour later, who turns up? Batman. Sees an execution, freaks out in an alleyway. No place to change.
Are they paying you for all this?
Yeah? According to this, he's in Geneva from '76 to '79. Well, I called Geneva. Nobody there's even heard of the guy - - Probably off in Tibet with some kung fu master.
You are on drugs.
Something like this -- what do you suppose this could drive a guy to?
Yep. He watched the whole thing happen - - Recognize the beat cop? Jim Gordon
His face. Allie, look at his face.
Nice snap, huh? Pulitzer Prize, 1963.
Why? Aw, come on, Vicki, I'm a reporter. I'm curious. I do this for a living. There's a phone. You can call him up and cancel.
Plain or roasted? Alex, I'm very flattered that you've gone out and done all this research.
Yeah. Peanuts. Which is how he goes through women.
Bruce Wayne? Date? He called you up and asked you for a date? Shit. HEY, MIRANDA! C'MERE! Now pay close attention to this. Miranda -- tell my friend here what you told me about Bruce Wayne.
Guess who's got a date with Bruce Wayne?
Well, he must like the way he looks. He's got a mirror in every room.
What were you thinking?
Oh. Sorry. I was thinking.
Well, you know me. The more they've got, the less they're worth. This guy must be the most worthless man in America.
That, and the sweet smell of two hundred million bucks.
I bet they like him for his big charity balls.
Likes to kill? KNOX Women find him magnetic.
Rich. Reclusive. Bankrolls half a dozen charities.
All aver the world. They say he's spent half of his life overseas.
Where does one man get all this junk?
Some. I am a rich bitch, remember? I'm quoting.
Man, I feel like Robin Leach. You actually know all these people?
Well, I'm starving. Will you at least buy me a hamburger?
Oh, absolutely. Bruce and I are very close.
Our next D.A. -- I hear Bruce Wayne is throwing a fundraiser. Did you get your invitation yet?
Small so far. I think he's leaving the big fish for Harvey Dent.
Evildoers, huh? Big or small?
Oh, it's too good. We got a six-foot bat that swoops out of the night and preys on evildoers.
A girl could get killed - - so they tell me. What's new and hot in Gotham City?
God, Vick, a girl could get hurt doing this.
Too much glamor, huh. What's in the bag - - Monte Carlo? Apes in Kenya?
Burned out. I need a vacation.
Honey - - I would know any randomly selected square inch of Vicki Vale. If I had a good enough hint.
How'd you know it was me?
I'm afraid you don't know the half of it. Sit down. I have a tale to tell. And not a happy one.
He's not too bad. I can live with him.
No, I'm fine.
Here, let me do that.
Good idea - with a boss who's a really ugly son-of-a-bitch.
Maybe I ought to think about getting another job.
I know... I know. I've been an arsehole of spectacular proportions. Olympic standard.
It was nothing. We're not ... He just makes me laugh. When was the last time we laughed? Any of us?
Everything's gonna be fine.
Yes. Great. Kevin, I'11 send Bean in to keep you company.
Let's get a coffee.
Nothing ever really changes, does it, David?
Sorry, honey - he just happened to tag along.
0 my god.
Ah, well .... CUT TO:
At least you didn't bring Mr Bean with you.
Honestly David, you're so spineless.
I was sort of half way through the sentence in which I would have asked him when it suddenly seemed like a mistake.
Sort of half.....
Great. You said you'd ask Grierson about putting our guest somewhere else. Did you?
Yes. And I have a wine for dinner that will kill you.
Now what does that mean? My daughter wakes up with a strange man in her bed, and I'm supposed to think it's amusing? That tie's God-awful. Why do you wear it?
I know you are. Very serious ... most of the time these days.
David, I'm serious!
Okay. It's not a problem... Let's just sit ... I'11 talk to the gallery ...
It's okay. There's no one out here. Just open the door. Trust me.
Shut up, Kevin. Honey, you-re not making sense ...
Your face smells like a foot.
Ali? What's wrong?
0h Ali we can work this thing out, you know.
There were three strawberries.
I had the last strawberry in the refrigerator.
I need some time, David. A little time. It's not just you. It's partly me.
I know - I'11 take it in to George tomorrow'- he'll fix it. Stupid thing.
It isn't working any more, David.
What's wrong with you, David? All you have to do is say, Excuse me, I've been sitting here since the start of the Millennium and I'd really like some action from you before the end of the world. I'll go.
I'm not sure I got the right person but they were a bit busy ...
Did you really ask?
Well, they're kind of busy but it doesn't look like ...
That's exactly what I said ... before I said - Great, it's a sensational idea."
It's the last thing we need.
Yes. Yes. Sometime.
David - are you ever going to learn to say 'no'?
Ahm - he's male. He's English. He's a doctor of er ... at least 2 things. I think they would have mentioned if he was a blind dwarf. Or one of those guys who kills lots of people all the time. I think we're looking at someone moderately normal here.
Do we know anything about him?
I said I'd check with you.
And what did you say?
Yes, there are hotels. They just thought maybe it'd be nice for him to stay with a real American family. Popcorn, waffles, all that stuff.
There aren't hotels?
And they asked me if we'd like to ... you know... put him up for a while.
Sounds great. Excellent. Though-, Ahm... there's this guy who's coming to work at the Gallery, from England...
Jennifer can stay and look after Kevin
Don't ask him about work, Charlie. Life's too short.
Ahm, well, you know ~ that's a tough question - on one' level I think it ....
Great. Classic timing. Why don't you ask her just to leave a date for the divorce? I'll check my diary later.
David. There's a call for you. It's your wife.
Uh ... yes ...
Big day today, huh? 78
Excuse me. Mr Grierson called down. He's ready to see you upstairs.
I can understand THAT. Neither do I.
Right first time.
He doesn't like to say much does he?
No, Annie, no. This is Doctor Bean. He's going to be working with us.
Oh, right, yeah. two dollars please.
Annie, it's me.
Two dollars please.
It wasn't a dream, was it. I have to go in to work and tell them Whistler's Mother now looks like Danny De Vito.
Whistler was a great painter, but he wasn't a great chooser of paints ....
Oh Jesus. Oh God. Oh Jesus God. Oh Mary Mother of Jesus. Oh Jesus of Nazareth.
Seems to be a problem with the door. Where's the picture gone?
Yes. Ahm... think I'11 ...
Better go. Grierson hates people being late.
Ah, Mr Bean ...
I don't think you really understand what you're looking at ...
Look at all this - publicity expenditure ... catering ... all completely fictional ... back as far as June 93 ...
Great - keep him out of trouble.
He's just parking the Governor's car.
Yes. Ahm. I was just wondering where my English house guest had got to.
Everything okay, David?
You're an innocent and an optimist David - that's why I love you. . Jesus - what a terrible tie- Come on, the Governor's coming at 3. And before then I have a little surprise for you and the Boss.
Yes, look, I wanted to talk to you about this. I'm sure we haven't been doing as badly as all that.
Great day. At last we can start getting out of debt and concentrating on the future.
Not necessarily. That's where this ... comes in. No, I've had a better idea than sacking people. You'll hear soon enough.
'Emergency measures, in your book means sack people right?
Thanks, David. Always a pleasure.
Look, I've left Bean on his own. Nice to chat though Bernie - always a subtle joy.
It's great when people who work together can become real friends.
Yes, isn't he.
Saw her at the movies the other night with that boss of hers. Nice guy. Good looking.
She's ... well, she's good.
And howls Alison?
Ah. Fine. It's good. It's great.
Howls he getting on with the family?
Yes. I'11 mention it to him. But ... he's kind of his own guy, you know?
I was hoping DU. Bean might take a look at my computer project today.
But the particular glory of the system... is that it can also work oh large screens in each individual room - so we can network the program to every room in the gallery.
It's very good Bernie.
Good point Bernie - precisely the kind of perceptive interjection I'd expect from my new V.P. How can we, you ask, survive without Whistler's Mother - our single greatest asset? Well, the truth is - we can't. So what am I saying? Will we find her again? Never - this robber was clearly the work of a criminal of great genius.
Thank you, sir. Although, I'm afraid I don't quite see how we can ...
He's a man with a plan who will haul us into profitability and the 21st century.
Thank you Bernie. Well done. Now, If you'll excuse - I have a little smartening up to do myself.
Okay, that'll do. The Governor's here in half an hour. We have to be totally ready then. No excuses. Period!
Hey. Let's junk the medals, Elmer. This is not a Veterans' reunion. We wanna make the Governor feel at home. Not remind him of piles of dead people wearing uniforms.
This is Elmer, our longest serving...
Right. Got it.
And that's where you introduce me to the Governor.
What a pleasure, Governor Reynolds. I'd like you to meet some of our staff here. .
Well, bravo! What with you and Whistler's Ma - I think I've got a winning team.
We'll be able to start this afternoon. I'11 pipe the guide to every video screen in the gallery. Now, that'll impress the Governor.
Love to, sir, but no can do. No spare room. Period.
So ... I'm wondering if one of you would have this guy stay in your home instead of some expensive hotel.
Lord Walton assures me this guy's one of the very top scholars in the English art world. Has a couple of doctorates no less.
Okay, sir. Certainly. Good.
So, why not haul your ... nice little ass into this room and explain to me and my wife why our precious daughter is going to be absolutely fine because of all the fantastic intelligence and attention you are going to give her case.
We have. In fact, we've been sitting here since the start of the Millennium and I'd really like some action from you before the end of the world.
I'm er ... sorry if you've been waiting a long time.
I said say that again, son - because the next time you do, I'll make sure you're in there with my daughter, but in a slightly less healthy state and she's in a coma with a broken arm right now.
I beg your pardon?
Say that again, son.
And I need Fridays off, to spend more time with my family. Speaking of which - if you'll excuse me .... I've got a lot of time to make up.
A car sounds sensible.
Maybe two cars.
And a car.
VERY ACCOMMODATING Well, no, sir, I'm sure ...
I owe you a very serious apology, young man. It wouldn't surprise me if you wanted to leave us after this. I sincerely hope that you do not.
Of course not. I'm sacking you for neglectful conduct, relating to the heavy financial loss this gallery has incurred, through your recent lack of professional judgement. A loss I trust Bernie will be able to reverse.
I'm fired? Because I let a... copy of a painting the get stolen?
David, David, David ...
Well, congratulations. Isn't that great, David?
Quite right, sir.
Bravo. Let's put on a good show tomorrow, shall we? Don't want anything to go wrong.
I think you're wrong, David. She looks as fine as she's ever looked. Worth every cent of the 10 million dollar-s.
Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Congratulations. Marvellous thing. Bravo.
Brilliant, huh? I already have a prospective buyer - the current Governor of California, no less, who is flies in tomorrow to inspect her and clinch the deal. Spread the news. I think decisive leadership has done the trick, don't you?
No. no, no, hold on ... We cant sustain our loses - so I've decided.. to sell Whistler's Mother.
... you have to sack me. I understand, sir. I'll go quietly. In fact I'll go right now.
Thank you David. However, flattery will get you nowhere. Truth is, I have a rather different plan for Whistler's dear Mama. Bernie and I have been inspecting our books - and the long and short of it is, we cannot survive with our current losses, so ...
Exactly. She's in a surprisingly terrible state. Isn't she, Bean?
Time taken its toll on the old girl, eh?
The thing is, sir, I've just been giving the painting a very thorough inspection, with the help of Dr Bean here - and we feel the time's come for Whistler's Mum to have her first face-lift.
Er ... pray tell me why?
Sack him? David, what else can I do? This business is not, repeat, not breaking even. And David ... notice anything this morning?
You're not going to ....
Glad to hear it. Tell poor Mr Larson to come through, will you?
Yes, although, I really..... thank you. Yes, it's great to have him with us. The whole family's very excited.
Very pleased you've taken him in, David. At a time when no-one's job is safe, it really identifies you as a team player.
Ah... He certainly has something, sir.
Yes, this is Doctor Bean.
Ah, David. Finally. And this must be our professor from across the sea.
No. Perfect. Looking forward to it. CUT TO:
Tomorrow. You have a problem with that?
on the other hand ... maybe a breath of fresh air is just what my family needs ... Yes. Great news. Fabulous. Triumphant. Course it might need a little smoothing over. When's he due?
I thought perhaps as Vice-President, and in view of the unfortunate attendance's for the summer show this year... the MASSIVE financial LOSS ...
Oh, look, I mean, it's kind of the last thing... I mean, I'd really like to, but... things at home are kind of sensitive, so I couldn't really er ...
Ah ... Jennifer, I need you to watch Kevin. Jen?
Sure. You're right.
It's you and Mom that need to talk.
Jen - you don't wanna talk about it?
There's a man. I woke up next to a man ...
Honey, calm down now... it's okay...
Okay, so the guy's gonna look like Meatloaf's backside. No-one's asking you to go to bed with him.
Richard Burton was very good-looking.
All the guys they claim are English to and good-looking like Dan Day- Lewis and Liam Neeson, turn out to be Irish. Even Anthony Hopkins is welsh. Prince Charles is so ugly they pay him two million bucks a year to stay indoors.
What makes you say that?
Oh come on - the guy's going to be a creep. All Englishmen are ugly.
No - but when you've torn out a man's throat with your bare hands, you learn to appreciate the beautiful things in life.
They're pretty. Learn it in the army?
You arrange those flowers yourself?
Not my place, sir. It would only be a matter of time before I'm calling you Dave. Then where would we be? By next year, you're my Sweety-Pie" and I'm "Coochie-Coo". I'11 be back in 15.
You've known me five years Elmer. When do you get to calling me David?
Not in one piece anyway. I see Mrs Whistler as kind of ... like my own dear mother. I'd kill any man that tried to interfere with her. The Vice President here will vouch for that.
As you can see, security's pretty tight in this section. Nobody gets past Elmer here. Isn't that right?
Bye, Bean. Thanks for everything. And take care, huh? I know it's insane, but I'm going to miss you.
... in the distant future.
How the hell should I know?
But is she gonna be okay?
She was wearing a helmet. It could have been worse.
Is Jenny gonna be okay?
Jennifer! This is not - repeat, not! how we do things in this family. I've told you never to get on one of those death traps! Please - talk to me. I promise to be reasonable.
Hey, En, nice bike'- but remember: any kids you have are gonna look just like its handsome driver.
I'11 give you a chance... Know anything about computers?
Well, there is that ...
That's one - way of looking at it. You might also say this guy is brainless he has no brain'.
He was incredible. This guy is fearless. He has no fear.
I vote for Bart.
Well, Michael Bolton's pretty grisly.
Who do you think is the ugliest guy who ever lived.
Hiya Dad ~ I'll need you upstairs for homework in about .... oh, 20 minutes.
It is urgent, sir.
Damn. I was just going to Number 4 ....
We need you urgently in C Theatre.
And I'm sorry you look that way, short-ass. That suit stinks and you obviously dye your hair.
I am sorry you feel that way.
I've known soldiers who've had their heads blown off who were more intelligent than you two. Not only have you failed to protect your most valuable possession from theft - but you didn't even know it'd been stolen! I'd sooner buy heroin from the guy who sells drugs outside my grandson's school than anything from you guys.
Yes it is ... may I introduce you To Bern ...
off the peg?
Why thank you sir.
Not at all, Governor. Very striking.
Hi, Grierson, forgive the war paint. Going on To my regiment/s reunion after.
what a pleasure, Governor. Welcome.
Sting?! Sounds like something you put on a rash.
Come on Sting!
Of course he is.
You know, Mr. Bean's okay. You're not gonna kick him out, are you, Dad?
It's a kind of an interesting swap. Mom for the Man from Ga Ga.
I wish I could use that at school. "Hey, Teach, no hard feelings ... It's just things between us ain't what they used to be and I need a little space, ya know? So I'11 see you around in a couple of years, maybe".
You know the thing I hate most about children?
NO, seriously - I know he's your boyfriend, but there's something about his upper lip that is so weird. What do you think it is, Dad? Jen says it's a moustache, I say it's a cluster of about 11 mosquitoes, resting.
Shut up, Kevin.
Oh, uh, I mean, uh, ass-goblin...
You already said that, Butt-Head.
Um... ass... head...
Uh... dill, um, face...
Um, uh, butt... um, hole. Butt-hole...
Shut up, dill-hole.
Uh, I probably will, but not you. You're too much of a butt-monkey. Huh huh.
Hey Butt-Head, do you think we're ever gonna score?
Heh heh. Bye bye. Heh heh.
Yeah! We're with the bureau of cigarettes and chicks! We're gonna score!
Cigarettes and beer rule! Huh huh.
Yeah, maybe some chicks too. Heh heh.
You hear that, Beavis! We're gonna get alcohol, tobacco and guns!
Uh hey, does anyone wanna see my unit?
Yeah, and um, he used to hit me too.
Yeah, he had a lot of problems. Huh huh huh.
I always thought there was something wrong with him. Heh heh heh.
What's your problem Beavis?
Heh heh. Fire. Heh heh Aaaaeeehhhhg!!!
Oh yeah,...I mean no. NO! I won't settle down! Not this time!...
Huh huh huh. Settle down Beavis.
Heh heh. We wanna do her now!
Uh... Attention, attention! We're looking for that chick with the big boobs.
Could you, like, tell her we're ready to score?
Well where is she?!
Yeah. We can go see Hole and then we can get some hole. Huh huh huh huh.
Yeah, heh heh. Umm, isn't Seattle in Washington? Heh heh... 'cuz I was thinking maybe we could go see Hole.
Uh, oh yeah. Cool. They can take us to Washington and we can finally score.
Hey Butt-Head it's that chick!
Okay. I'll go right after you.
C'mon, Beavis, just start running really fast when you hit the ground. It'll work.
Uh, you first.
Huh huh. Jack. Huh huh.
Hey Butt-Head, look. A jack. Heh heh.
Yeah! Boobs. Heh heh. I just wanna say that again. Boobs. Heh heh.
Uh... Huh huh. I have a couple. Butt cheeks, huh huh huh.
Whoa, this is cool! Heh heh. It's like, everything looks all weird and...
Huh? Huh huh.
Hey Butt-Head, I'm starting to feel weird. I think I'm freaking out.
Uh... I think I'm seeing something too. It's like a really long time ago...
Whoa, my life is cool!
Uh, probably, huh huh...Whoa, I think my life is like, flashing in front of my eyes!
Hey Butt-Head, are we gonna die?
Hey Butt-Head, isn't there supposed to be like, water in cactuses?
Uh, probably like, another five minutes or something.
Yeah or like a Seven-Eleven or something... Are we almost there?
This desert is stupid. They need to put a drinking fountain out here.
This sucks. It's all hot and stuff.
This sucks. What are we doing here? Weren't we suppost'a go to Washington and score or something?
Uh... I think you scared them off.
Hey, where'd those chicks go?
Cool, huh huh.
Check it out Butt-Head, porta-potties.
Heh hmm heh heh.
Huh huh huh. Hey Beavis. We're on a bus with chicks.
You mean there's mre than one?
Uh... Is this the right bus?
Yeah really. Let's get outta here Beavis. Huh huh huh. This sucks.
That's not that much.
Huh huh. You mean like this?
Ow! I'll kick your butt!
Huh huh. Get out of the way, Beavis, I wanna sit by the window. Huh huh.
Ow! Cut it out Butt-Head.
Uh... We can't leave Washington 'till we find that chick.
Yeah, it's just the same thing over and over again.
That was boring. Huh huh.
That sucks. Heh heh. They need some shows about fire! Change the channel.
Dammit, all they have is shows about water.
You should kick your butt's ass. Huh huh huh.
My butt's bothering me!
Beavis, huh huh, what'er you doing?
Cool! Huh huh huh.
Check it out Butt-Head, TV!
Yeah, heh heh, enough'a this crap.
This is dumb, let's find that chick.
So, like, where is she?
Yeah, heh heh. Damn right!
Damn, huh huh.
Huh huh. We're gonna score now.
Heh heh. We're in Washington!
Cut it out butt-hole!
No way butt-hole! I want the window.
Heh heh. Thank God.
This is it, Beavis. Huh huh. We're finally gonna score.
Huh huh. No way, dude.
Huh huh huh.
Ow, let go, Butt-Head!
Forget it, bunghole!
So, uh, huh huh. Are we gonna score now?
Me first! Me first!
Huh huh huh. I'm ready for love.
Uh... Hey baby. Are we like, doing it?
Heh heh. This is the best night of our lives.
Huh huh huh. That chick was talking about doing it.
Huh huh huh huh huh huh.
What a rip-off. Come on. We gotta find that chick.
Ow! These chips suck.
Heh heh. Yeah.
Beavis. This is what it's all about.
Yeah, we should party.
That's Butt-Head. Don't you get it, Beavis. These dudes have the same name as us.
Huh huh. This says Beavis.
Uh... Buuuuut. Boot. Someone named boot.
Uh, B...A...U... No, uh, V...
Uh... maybe he's blind... Huh huh, check this out.
Hey Butt-Head, why's that guy holding a sign?
Yeah, heh heh. I thought there'd be casinos and lights and stuff.
Uh, huh huh, this is Las Vegas?
Aggghg! We're gonna die! We're all gonna die!
Dammit! Huh huh. That chick wants me.
Huh huh. Soon, she will be mine.
Wait, I wanted her to do it.
Beavis, this is the greatest day of our lives. Huh huh huh.
Yeah, heh heh, and then we're gonna get a big-screen TV! Heh heh.
We're gonna get paid to score.
Uh, huh huh... We'll do it, sir.
Oh, heh heh really? Cool. Heh heh.
Beavis, you butt-munch, this guy wants us to score with his wife. And he's gonna pay us. We can buy a new TV.
Nnnnaah...We need to watch TV DAMMIT!!!
Shut up Beavis! Uh, yeah. We'll do your wife.
Actually, we just wanna watch TV...
Dammit! I need a TV now! We're missing everything!
Huh huh huh. That was cool.
I need TV now! Now! NNNNDAMMIT!!!
What's your problem Beavis?
Nnnnooo. Oooooh nooooo.
Yeah, heh heh. Maybe it has a TV. Heh heh. TV.
Whoa, check it out Beavis. I didn't know Anderson had a Camper.
No it wasn't!
Huh huh huh. That was cool.
Yeah, heh heh. He's a anus. Heh heh.
What a dork. Huh huh.
Entert-ain...us...an-us...Oh yeah! Heh heh. Anus. Heh heh.
Huh huh huh. He said "anus."
Yeah, heh heh. Let's just wheel this thing back to the house.
Huh huh huh. That was cool.
Yeah, heh heh.
Whoa! I think I just figured something out Beavis.
Yeah, but check it out. It's gone!
Dammit, Beavis, I was about to score. Huh huh.
Washington! That's where she was gonna meet up with ya? Damn, she's goin' all the way!
Oh yeah. Can you just take us to Washington? We're gonna meet her there and, you know, heh heh hmmm...
Huh huh. You guys are funny. Let's have a drink on it.
Yeah, heh heh. I think I just had an accident. Heh heh hmm heh hmm heh.
Just make sure it looks like an accident...
Yeah, heh heh. Boooooiiiing!!!
That's alright. I'd rather not know your real names anyways. I'm Muddy. Look, I'm gonna get right to the point. I'll pay you ten grand plus expenses, all payable after you do her...
Aaaah. TeeeVeeeee, heh heh.
Um, um, yeah, probably. Heh heh.
Does that say Xanax?
Sorry to hear that. Me, I took a beating.
Uh, we didn't score yet.
Why it's you two. How'd ya do in Vegas?
Hey, Butt-Head, it's that slut from the plane!
Heh heh, thanks.
They perk me right up.
Well, if you find yourself getting tired, take a couple of these.
Uh... No, I poop too much. Then I get tired.
Oh, maybe you're lactose intolerant.
Really? I poop too much.
You'll have to speak up son. I have this ringing in my ears. My doctor says it could be related to my heart palpitations. I've had two operations on my heart.
I'm probably going to make out with her first before we, you know, get down...
Oh, that's nice.
Yeah, heh heh. I'm gonna have money, and a big-screen TV and sluts everywhere!
Whoa! heh heh. Hey Butt-Head, this chick is pretty cool. She says there's gonna be tons of sluts in Las Vegas! Heh heh heh.
Oh, there are so many slots you won't know where to begin.
Yeah, I'm hoping to do some sluts too. Heh heh. Do they have lots of sluts in Las Vegas?
I hope to score big there myself. I'm mostly going to be doing the slots.
Yeah, we're gonna score.
Hello there. Are you two heading for Las Vegas?
OK boys. Get ready to fire on the count of three. I'm gonna give you three seconds...
Why does everyone wanna see my schlong? I am the one-and-only-almighty-bungholiooo!
He's jerkin' us off. I think we're gonna have to take him out. Get ready to fire on my orders... This is your last chance. Give us the unit now...
You must bow down to the Almighty Bunghole. Heh heh, this is cool. Bungholio-o-o-o-o-o!
Do you have any oleo? Heh heh.
We'll get you whatever you want. Get that other kid. We might need him.
Do you have T.P.? T.P. for my bunghole?
This is Agent Flemming, A.T.F.. We won't hurt you. We just want the unit. Tell us where the unit is.
Where are his pants?
OK, nobody shoot. He could still have the unit on him. Keep your distance. We don't wanna take a chance on hitting it.
Attention all units. We've got him. He's in front of a camper in the visitor's lot.
Damn! Where the hell is he? We should've found him by now.
We just cleared all four floors. No sign of him.
Not now Bork.
Say chief, isn't that guy whose camper,...I mean, off in whose...
Not on him, Chief.
Bork, when this is all over, remind me to make you an appointment with Agent Hurley.
Chief, I swear, we tore that bus apart. They couldn't have...
Okay, boys and girls, our suspects are on a tour bus we believe to be headed for... the White House! Jumpin' Jesus! I want everyone there. Our people. Locals. Orders are shoot to kill. Repeat! Shoot to kill!
Jesus jumped-up... Bork, can you imagine what would happen if they set that thing off in our nation's capital, or even worse, if they sold it to some damned foreigner at that conference. Well, it's not gonna happen!
What the hell...? Bork! That bus we picked up. Where was it headin'?
Where did these guys come from?
Well, I'll be a blue-nosed gopher.
We've run a sample through the National Criminal Sperm Bank and come up with two possible genetic matches for a father.
That's better. Yes?
Oh, ah... You know that guy in whose camper they... I mean that guy off in whose camper they were whacking?
Bork! You are a federal agent. You represent the United States Government... Never end a sentence with a preposition. Try again.
Chief, you know that guy whose camper they were whacking off in?
Deep and hard.
It gets worse. The unit wasn't finished. It has a flaw - the casing. If hit hard enough, it could break open, releasing the virus.
Jesus Jumped-Up Christ! If this were to fall into the wrong hands...
Well, sir it's not good. Roll the tape... The X-5 unit is a new top-secret biological weapon, a manmade virus...
Damn right. Bork, we're dealing with real pros here. My opinion, terrorists... What's the scoop on that stolen unit?
Cut the power!
You got half the state looking for ya - how do you get away?
I see it. I don't get it.
You see what I see, Bork?
Bork, don't you realize what kids today are capable of? Don't you read the papers?
They look like a couple of kids chief.
Well sir, I didn't really think it was necessary. You see we have a picture of them from the elevator security cam. Here, have a look.
Yes. You can never be too careful Bork.
Ah, the witness?
Did you give him a full cavity search?
Chief, we found a witness that says he saw two teenagers leaving Dallas' room shortly before we arrived.
Talk ta me, Bork.
Dammit! Where's that damn unit??!!
We got nothing, Chief. We tore the place apart. We can only legally hold her for another couple of hours.
Cool, huh huh. Hey Beavis that's that dude that's paying us to do his wife.
Ah'm gonna blow you both to hell!
This is gonna be cool! Huh huh huh.
She sure does.
Uh, yeah. Does she have big hooters?
One more thing. Mah wife's got this leather satchel. It's black, about this big. I need ya to bring it back. It's real important. Sentimental value... Any questions so far?
Holed up. Huh huh huh. Holed.
She's holed up in a hotel room in Las Veags. Your flight leaves in a couple of hours. Now c'mon, I'll drive you to the airport.
Whoa, huh huh. Cool.
Here she is. Her name's Dallas. She ain't as sweet as she looks. She stole everything from me. Ya gotta watch out, 'cause she'll do you twice as fast as you'd do her.
That's right. I'm offering you ten grand plus expenses to do my wife. We gotta deal?
Do her? Huh huh.
Well, Earl said you guys were young, but jeez... Oh well, as long as you can get the job done. So what are your names?
Yoo-hoo! Travis and Bob Head. Whoo-hoo!
Whoa, this kicks ass! Huh huh huh.
Are you guys sluts too? Huh huh huh.
Meet Sylvia. And Elloise and Sam. And Ed. And Doreen.
Uh... Head? huh huh. My first name's Butt. Huh huh huh.
This is Travis and Bob... What's your last name, dear?
That's why I'm bussing it across America. I'm so glad you're here. Jim, I want you to meet two nice boys.
Cool, huh huh huh.
It's so nice to meet young men who are so well mannered.
Cool. Huh huh huh.
Hey, you wanna see something really cool? Huh huh huh.
Uh, do you think these two sluts still live in Highland? That would be cool.
Shut up, dumb-ass! You didn't score. I scored with both of them...
Yeah, they were sluts. Huh huh huh.
You scored with two chicks?!
Well, then you know what I'm talking about. Anyway, here's the story. I scored with these two chicks. True story.
Really? That's where we're from.
Yup. Huh huh.
You were a roadie for Motley Crue?
Uh, my butt and your...uh, butt.
Uh, hey. One of you kids got a match?
Uh, you want us to do a guy? Huh huh. No way.
Ten grand? That cheap-ass... I got a better deal for ya. I'll double it. I'll pay ya twenty if you go back there and do mah husband.
Uh, ten uh...
Muddy! Sonofabitch! Hold it. What's he payin' ya?
Uh, huh huh, this fat dude. He said we could do you. And he was gonna pay us.
Who sent ya?
Uh, huh huh. Is that gonna be enough time?
You got two seconds!
I will <u>never</u> sell this house. I'll be buried in my yard next to Barbara. Holding hands! And a good paintbrush!
Get <u>away</u> you little monster.
Does that mean you'd consider it in two weeks? You don't have to answer now. He wants me to check the deed restriction anyway. You take your vacation, Adam. Say 'bye!
So do I, Jane. I'm on vacation.
Adam my booyy! When you're really rich in what matters... ... nothing matters! My buyer has just made a killing in condos in the Village. And he's got a little stress problem... ... so his wife says they want the old peace and quiet!
We're rich in what really matters.
You'll be rich!
Maybe I am three-eighty-five if you carry a second lien! I can arrange the most creative financing in the six states of New England.
Oh, Adam, don't tease her. You never got an A in science in your life!
Give or take a year.
3:30 I guess.
What time is it?
Just a hunch.
What makes you think she likes me?
We've been given a gift here, honey. A real live little girl. She likes us a lot. She needs us. Maybe that's why we died so young, to keep us from getting so... attached to <u>things</u>. The house, antiques, your model. Look at us. We didn't have room for anyone.
You can build another one... with her.
Let's see if she can get my model back.
Ah, Adam, you don't know anything about little girls. She's just... missed out on some love, that's all...
Little black party dresses?
You know, I've been thinking. I could teach Lydia to sew.
... we wouldn't have had our little accident.
Lydia, believe me... we know... all the hard stuff is the same over here. You're going to be who you are... whether you're alive or dead ... and over here -- it's... It's flat... there's no food, no colors ... you can't smell the flowers. If we knew then what we know now we'd have been more careful...
I didn't --
<u>Adam</u>! Why did you build a whorehouse? Have you ever been to...?
But he didn't. We've got him where we want him.
He might have hurt somebody.
Maybe they'll leave now. That snake was a pretty nasty customer.
Who did the sushi?
N... No, I just did the Ink Spots.
The sushi? I did the wine. Didn't you do the sushi?
And your sushi was remarkable.
I don't care, I've changed my mind. ... I feel <u>really</u> confident. We're getting better at this stuff. We can scare them off ourselves -- tonight! I've got an idea. You're going to love it... I'm going to hate it.
But <u>we</u> let him out.
I am not going to expose that little girl to that... pervert down there.
Honey, I think that was a mistake.
No, we don't. We can work something out ourselves. We just have to try harder.
Go? What d'ya mean? We need help.
Honey. Let's go.
... acts like she's thirty-five.
She's only fourteen...
Maybe we should knock first?
I guess we open it.
Oh, Adam. I don't have gloves. My nails keep getting longer. I'll break them.
Has anything been simple so far? From the look of the shovel, we dig.
Bet... el... geuse. What an awful name. I thought it was like -- you know. The <u>juice</u> of <u>beetles</u>.
Three times. Powerful number.
Go ahead... third time's a charm.
... Yes this must be him. Look... Betelgeuse... Betelgeuse...
I didn't do that one... Hmmm.
Then it should be here.
Of course I did.
Did you copy these gravestones right, Adam?
This is different. Eventually she'll take someone to the attic. And then what? We've got to try to contact this guy Betelmyer. We gotta get some help, hon.
Adam, you had a photo of Big Foot!
She's got <u>photos</u>, Barbara.
Lydia's trying, but they don't believe her.
You know you're really a pretty girl.
Where are your skulls and bones?
Well, I don't know... We don't get many visitors.
It's <u>not</u> stupid. We're ghosts. Do you want this woman for breakfast for 125 years? Moan louder!
I feel really stupid.
Think of them as death shrouds. And the moaning is important. Really <u>moan</u>! Practice, practice, practice.
God, this is so corny. Have we been reduced to this? Sheets?
Look, she's right. We'll just start simple, honey, be tougher. I feel... confident. C'mon.
That guy is in our cemetery. Oh, Adam.
We probably wouldn't mind sharing the house with people who were --
We'd like some help in getting rid of the people who moved in here. Barbara and I worked very hard on this house.
How long do you suppose we were waiting?
Look at this, everything is different down here. All our furniture is gone.
My God, we're back where we started.
No. But it's somewhere without big worms.
... Not what I expected when we walked through that door.
Yet another triumph for Adam and Barbara in the afterlife.
Draw door? I don't know why we keep looking in that stupid book.
We need some help. I found something this morning. Here. Emergencies. 'In case of emergency, draw door.'
I don't know... what are you looking up?
Are you crazy? She can't hear you.
We don't know who he is... ... I'm going to talk to that little girl.
What about this Beetle guy?
We're not going to wait here like cornered animals. I can tell you that. We need help. I'm going to talk to that little girl.
There's nothing we can do. It's just a matter of time before they unlock this room. There goes my model. There goes our last refuge.
That's all we need.
But she <u>saw</u> us. I could feel it.
She couldn't have. We can't <u>make</u> them see us.
That little girl saw us.
Nothing. The bio buster? I don't get it...
That's it? No number, or instructions?
Not really... what's this?
Look in the index... maybe there's, like an emergency number or something.
Death didn't improve your sense of humor.
You can't say that for sure. It could be a transitional thing. Like a post-life crisis. We just have to be tougher with them. Come on. Have some brandy. Spirits, get it?
We're trapped in this house forever... with those... people.
I know. I'm sorry.
<u>You</u> left me.
Oh, Adam, don't ever leave me alone.
Whatever it is it can't be worse than this.
Barbara, honey! Don't go out there. You don't know --
No, I'm not putting up with this.
Oh, honey, we may need that.
We're not completely helpless. I've been reading the book. There's a word for people in our predicament, honey.
I don't know if there's anything we can do.
Is this a punishment for something we did in life? What can we do?
They make gypsies look good.
Adam, we <u>are</u> in hell. I hate these people.
That's my girl!
I guess... if I'm going to be dead, I'll just have to be the best dead person ever!
At least we won't have to worry about her.
Arrogant. That's Jane Butterfield all right...
Just says 'won't.' Wait a minute. Here it says 'the living are arrogant... they think they'll never die, so they refuse to see the dead.'
Won't? Or can't?
She can't see you, right? In the book, Rule Number Two: the living usually won't see the dead.
I don't know. <u>Jane, Jane, up here</u>!
What's she doing here?
God, it's Jane Butterfield!
But I'm not hungry, are you?
Dishes? We haven't eaten in three weeks! Adam, I'm not like you, I really need to be around <u>people</u>, get out to the church and go grocery shopping.
Hon... I didn't want to die, but really, this is fine with me. As long as I never have to wash dishes again.
In heaven there wouldn't be dust on the wallpaper.
Maybe this is heaven.
I can't clean anything. The vacuum is out in the garage. I can't leave the house. Why don't they tell us something? Where are all the other dead people in the world? Why is it just you and me?
Cabin fever, hon?
I don't see anything about 'Rewards and Punishments' or 'Heaven and Hell.' This book reads like stereo instructions! Listen to this... 'Geographical and Temporal Perimeters... Functional perimeters vary from manifestation to manifestation.' This is going to take some time.
There are a thousand things... Why did you disappear when you walked off the front porch? Is this a punishment? Are we halfway to heaven or are we halfway to hell? And how long is this going to <u>last</u>?
This book isn't arranged that way. What do you want to know?
I don't like situations like this. I hate it when I'm not in control. So just tell me the basics.
This is going to take some time.
I don't think we survived the crash.
Look at the publisher. Handbook for the Recently Deceased Press.
De<u>ceased</u>. I don't know where it came from.
Handbook for the recently diseased.
Yes it did. Yes it did. I made a couple of small discoveries. Here's one.
Anything happen while I was away?
That's how long you were gone.
You saved my -- uh -- life... or whatever... something.
Oh, Adam. We're home. In our own house. Nonsense. I'll make some coffee. You get some more firewood.
I'll tell you what, Barbara. I don't think we survived that crash.
I am sitting.
You'd better sit down, hon.
I'm not sure. It feels... frozen.
How's your arm?
This fire wasn't burning when we left the house.
Oh... I'm sorry...
Slow down there, honey... I don't want the vibration to weaken the model.
You're doing it, Adam. You're saving this town.
Yeah it turned out okay. We applied for a National Historical plaque for it. That'll be the third one on Main Street.
Adam, your Bozman Building is a beauty.
Don't forget the balls, Ernie.
Wave at the lion.
Let's not think about it. We'll have a nice romantic, quiet, vacation. Here comes the bridge chorus.
I know... I just wish she'd leave us alone.
We should be flattered that she wants to sell our house.
Ah, the ever-tactful Jane. Let's just relax about having children.
Jane said we should sell the house to someone with a family.
It's <u>your</u> turn, darling.
God, how I have looked forward to this, honey.
Oh, honey, I'm so glad we're spending our vacation at home.
Yeah, I want to get one coat on the wardrobe and then I'll help you.
God... Manchurian Tung oil? There's enough to refinish the gateleg table <u>and</u> the cherry wardrobe!
Helen got it for me in Oslo.
Manchurian Tung oil? Where did you get it?
Oh, Adam, the model looks so good. The Historical Society will love it. You've finished the streets?
Uh-uh. Only if you got <u>above</u> a C on science.
So can I?
I got an A!
We studied all day yesterday. Don't tell me...
I got it. And I took pictures of the new church for you, too.
Did you get the paint?
Really. I don't know.
What is going on?
Wait a minute. I had some licorice ice cream earlier. You guys could be gas. What if... I'm dreaming. Can you do any neat tricks to prove you're not gas?
You tell them that we are desperate horrible ghoulish creatures who will stop at nothing to get back our house.
God, if this is true this is like, amazing! I kinda like it up here. Can I visit you sometimes?
We weren't there. The handbook says funerals aren't for the dead.
You don't know the Deetzes very well, do you? My father bought this place. He never walks away from equity. Why don't <u>you</u> leave?
We want to frighten you away. So that you'll move out.
And this used to be your house, I bet. Why do you want to scare everybody?
I certainly did. I'd finish it too, but... I don't get out much.
<u>You</u> did this? You carved all these little figures and houses and things?
Stepmother. I'm very sensitive about being related to reptiles.
We were trying to scare your mother.
Why are you creeping around Delia's bedroom?
I'm wearing contacts... Also I read through <u>Handbook for the</u> <u>Recently Deceased</u>. It says that live people ignore the strange and unusual... not me... <u>I am</u> strange and unusual.
Nobody else can.
Is this like a trick question?
You can actually see us? Without the sheets?
<u>Night of the Living Dead</u>? It's this gross movie.
I'm not scared of Ralph Lauren. Those are <u>sheets</u>. Are you gross under there? Are you <u>Night of the</u> <u>Living Dead</u> under there? Like all bloody veins and pus?
Aren't you scared?
A... Are you the guys who're hiding out in the attic?
For Juno, your caseworker. Not that it matters to your type. But there <u>are</u> all these other people here ahead of you. I'd say three hours.
Wait for who?
D-90's. You spend a hundred and twenty-five years on earth, actually, in that house, during which you get only three class- one D-90 intercessions with Juno. You probably haven't even read through the manual completely yet.
Good luck. You're going to use up all your help vouchers.
Nine months? What difference does that make?
W... We didn't know how to make one.
You don't have an appointment, do you?
Now, let's get rolling!
You wish! I nearly scored with that little blonde. I need me a short little queen.
This is <u>my</u> town.
Hi ho, hi ho, it's off to work I go!
Okay. But that Betelgeuse sure seemed mad.
Can you scare them off?
You Maitlands are the backbone of the afterlife. So what's my cut?
But... the Deetzes are <u>destroying</u> our house.
<u>So</u> you, the dead, want me, <u>the</u> <u>undead</u>, to throw the live guys -- Mommie, Daddy and Lolita, who might not mind a tumble with an older guy, out into the cold? Even though they have paid hard casharoonie for your dump?
You don't kill anyone.
Hell no! I'm rolling. I'm a businessman. I'm the man what <u>am</u>. <u>Beee</u>tel <u>Jooose</u>! <u>Who</u> do I gotta kill?
Aren't you dead?
Yes... or no? Do you want the Deetzes out or in?
Well, we didn't know --
<u>Never trust the living</u>! We <u>cannot</u> have a routine haunting like yours provide incontrovertible visual proof of existence beyond death.
And if we need <u>you</u> again, how do we...?
<u>Don't say his name</u>! Just practice. Do it <u>yourself</u>!
Start simply. Do what you know. Use your talents. Practice. We only help those who help themselves. Just do a little at a time. And of course, practice, practice, practice. It's tricky but -- you weren't murderers by any chance, were you?
We have to start simpler, is that it?
I heard. Tore your face right off! Bad news. It obviously doesn't do any good to pull your heads off in front of people if they can't see you.
The Intermediate Interface chapter on Haunting says it all. Get 'em out yourself. It's your house. Haunted houses don't come easy.
Hell is other people. You obviously don't read much. Besides things seem pretty quiet here. You should thank God you didn't die in Italy. The Deetzes. Okay. Have you been studying the manual?
No. What's wrong?
Are you available?
I'm so sorry we frightened you. What were you doing?
You lilly-livered bleeding hearts!
Hey, I've been in a frigging bottle for six hundred years. I was out. Every dog has his day. This is my town. I need a night to howl.
I don't like Charles Deetz particularly, but you could have <u>killed</u> him.
Home. <u>Home</u>. <u>Home</u>!
Folks, be reasonable here. I'm at your service. You be the judge. I'm a harmless guy. Try me.
Hey <u>you've</u> been on Saturn! I <u>hate</u> those sandworms! <u>Yecchhh</u>! I've lost a lot of buddies to sandworms. So a daughter? She got good legs? God I love a young leg.
Just one daughter.
Bio-<u>busting</u>. I <u>loves</u> bio-busting. Who do I gotta kill? Family -- right? Obnoxious I bet. Mommie, daddy, piglets.
Just get some people out of our house.
You're the dead.
All right. Who are you?
Forget him. He'll remain with his whores until someone calls him. You need to worry about people like <u>Otho</u>. There are a lot of phony trance mediums. They usually can't make the formulas work, but if Otho stumbles on the right words in that handbook... he could hurt you. As in -- <u>exorcism</u>.
What about Betelgeuse?
You people have really screwed up! I received word that you allowed yourselves to be <u>photographed</u>. And you let Betelgeuse out and didn't put him back, and you let Otho get ahold of the handbook.
The whorehouse was my idea. I want Betelgeuse out of the picture! We've got some serious talking to do.
Yeah. He still tries popping up all over the place. But he can't join the party unless you call on him. Get the Deetzes out by yourselves! I gotta go.
He's a freelance bio-exorcist. Claims to get rid of the living. But he's a troublemaker. He's pushy. He's been sleazing around that cemetery for 500 years.
What do you mean? What's he do?
No, you don't! He does not work well with others.
No. You don't want his help.
If... we have trouble. What about the guy in the flyer? Betelge...
Pity. Murderers seem to have an easy time of it. Just look at Amityville. He was one of my boys. Didn't have to give that one any lessons. From day one... But I must be off ... I've got a planeload of football players crashed in the midwest... they need a lot of help, just with the basics.
-- Like you used to be?
What do you expect? You're dead.
We're very unhappy.
We need help. We deserve help.
Yes. I evaluate individual cases and determine if help is needed, deserved, and available.
Are you Juno, our case worker?
I'd nearly given up on you. I was about to leave. I do have other clients.
It was gross. They wanted me to dissect a frog. I told them no way. I said it was against my religion. I got a C.
How'd you do on the science test?
So, <u>never</u> let Beetle Juice out. Never. Besides... We're thinking about letting everyone stay... You and your father and mother can stay too.
Life is just... too awful.
No you don't! No... Lydia... Why?
I want to be dead too.
No, Lydia, we're dead.
He said if I let him out he would take me over to the other side to find you.
I hate you! I can't trust anybody!
Wait... I don't think it would be a very good idea if you told your parents that we're up here.
I don't wear that stuff to <u>bed</u>. Besides, there's <u>nothing</u> wrong with it. I'm getting out of here.
Funeral. God, you guys <u>really are</u> <u>dead</u>! What was it like? The funeral. Did you cry?
We can't. We haven't left the house since the funeral.
I always tell the truth. Of course I can see you.
Tell the truth.
You're not gross. Why were you wearing a sheet?
If I had seen a ghost at your age, I would have been frightened out of my wits.
'Bye, Jane, I'll see you in church in a couple weeks.
Oh, honey... I didn't mean anything ... it's just too big for you two. I know these things.
Barbara Maitland, sweetie, you just listen now. This house is too big. It really ought to be for a couple with a family.
And live in what, our station wagon?
You could double the size of your hardware store! You'll be rich.
Jane, don't send photographs of our house around the country! We're not interested in selling.
Look at me, think of me as cash! This offer is really real! From a rich man in New York City who only saw a photograph!
No! Jane, it is 6:45 in the morning!
Honey -- today I am three hundred <u>fifty</u> thousand dollars!
That's right, Jane. Complete vacation.
Hi, Barb! I'm glad I caught you. I heard you were on vacation!
Your qu...? But you're...
W... What is it?
Then <u>I'll</u> help them. For a price.
... I will.
Can you help <u>me</u>?
You've got to help them.
So... You're ready for me now?
How'd you like to be married to... the King...?
They'd look silly on me. I'm fourteen years old!
How'd you like to have the biggest boobs in the world? Right now. I can do it if I get out.
No I don't. I don't take orders from smurfs.
You've <u>got</u> to say it!
You were the snake! Right? I know. I saw you.
Just <u>say</u> it.
God, you're anatomically correct!
It's spelled different, but basically... Now you said it twice; just one more time, and I'll be free. And then <u>you'll</u> be free.
Your name is <u>Beetle Juice</u>? Yecch! That's as bad as <u>Deee</u>lia <u>Deee</u>tz.
I am <u>not</u>! Beetle... Juice?
Good thing you are beautiful, kid. You are <u>dumb</u>!
Breakfast beetle? Beetle? Beetle fruit? Fruit bat? Fruit battle? Volkswagen? Fruit wagon?
It means look <u>behind</u> you, bimbo.
I don't know what that signal means.
Your fingers are so small I can't see them. First word -- two syllables.
No, dummy. Two.
Of course you do.
Minor problem. The rules. I can't tell it to you. But... do you know how to play charades?
I... I don't know what your name is.
I can't help you from this side, but here's how we do it. So <u>simple</u>. Say my name three times. That's all. I'll be all yours. Then I'll bring you over here in style.
That's right. They treat you like scum I bet?
Well, it can't be any worse than my life here.
Well, yes, of course. It's great over here. You'll meet all the greats. James Dean. Buddy Holly. 'The little things a you say and do... make me want to be with you-a-hoo.'
I think so.
You do? Over here? On <u>my</u> side?
I want to get in.
Sort of. High spirit. Heh heh. Listen, cookie, I've been trapped in this burg for hundreds of years. All I want is to get out.
Are you a spirit too?
The happy hunting ground. Who cares?
Where'd they go?
No, I mean they've gone. Decamped. Split. Vanished.
Of course they're dead. They're ghosts.
Cookie, they are dead, dead, deadski.
Mr. and Mrs. Maitland? I've come for the last time. Where are you? Barb...
It's too late, Charles. I'm sorry.
I am ashamed to say he is. Look, nothing short of giving away free sacks of money would get him up here, Charles. And Sarah? Forget it. You can't get her out of Bergdorf's with plastic explosives.
He's your cousin.
He's a cloven-hooved beast!
Otho, you've got to help me get Maxie Dean up here. I have a deal that could make all of us very comfortable.
That's fine, Otho. Just keep me out of it. I am here to relax and clip coupons. And goddamnit, I mean to do it.
Yes, of course you are. Well, Otho had an intuition. Call it a hunch -- that it was going to be a fabled monstrosity of a house. And it certainly is. Charles, you're lucky the Yuppies are buying condos, so you can afford what I'm going to have to do to this place. We are talking <u>from the ground</u> <u>ups'ville</u>!
Not these people! They are ruthless!
They're probably guilty about what they did to me.
I think she's in with them.
Just don't tell Lydia.
Let's hope he knows how to produce those damn ghosts for Max and Sarah... Because I've bought options on property all over town. I need Max's financing...
Otho knows as much about the supernatural as he knows about interior decoration.
What's he going to do? Viciously rearrange their environment?
Otho'll know what to do.
At least insofar as we have our first casualty. Me.
I feel like we've been at war, Charles.
We're going to have a lot to do tomorrow... The Goodwill truck is coming, and whatever is up there in that attic goes away with it. Should have it fumigated too. I saw a fly today.
Lydia, at your age, you are <u>so</u> <u>young</u>. Charles, we need to call that awful Jane Butterfield tomorrow and get the key to the attic door. Can't you find a way to hold back some of her commission?
There's only one Chinese restaurant in town, darling, the owners are Irish and Irish people happen to cook Cantonese. They don't know better.
I can't believe that we're eating Cantonese. Is there no Szechuan up here? Hunan?
Otho, why didn't you just come in the door?
Nonsense, everytime she says that, the paint peels, and some wild creature tries to kill us.
They're... not here anymore.
Otho, could you actually... do something with them?
I can't <u>bring</u> the ghosts. They're not here!
I'll bring the wine... and the business plan. And Lydia you'll bring the ghosts.
Delia will cook...
I cannot believe this.
Now, let's get back to business. I want to get Maxie Dean and Sarah up here immediately. I can make history here! I'm going to turn this sleepy little backward town into a leading supernatural research center... and amusement park.
Come on. Leave their stuff alone.
Look at all that <u>parking</u>!
Listen, you guys. These ghosts are really nice people. I think we scared them off. Let's just leave them alone. Okay?
Answer your mother.
They're ghosts. They do what they want.
The attic room is locked --
<u>This is not a joke</u>! That sheet was full of ghosts.
Lydia, I don't know what it is with you and these pratical jokes, but --
Well this is... I mean, this is the weirdest --
Yes. Except when you creep around in your mother's --
Dad. Do you believe me?
Lydia. What the hell is the point of my moving up here if you people won't let me relax? Go help your mother.
Well I just wanted to tell you what I saw.
Darling, can't you see I'm relaxing in here!
... asked you for something, didn't she? I'm going down to relax. I want a noise-free zone. Do you understand? Noise free.
Skeleton keys never work. Anyway, this can wait. We'll get a crowbar later. Your mother...
Let me have it.
I was just trying to open the door. Mrs. Butterfield brought over a skeleton key.
Lydia. Try to be civil. I'm going to see if I can set up a noise-free zone in the study.
Stepmother. She's out torturing the movers.
Where is your mother?
Lydia, we're the first trickle! In a couple of years this whole town will be <u>filled</u> with people like us.
Yeah, maybe if he's nice, he'll let me hang myself from a rope in his barn.
My whole life is a darkroom! One ... big... dark... room.
Lydia, relax. We'll build you a darkroom in the basement.
Delia hates it.
What do you think, honey?
They're already dead. They can't feel a thing.
Are they suffering?
Otho, can you do it?
I don't care from guilt. I just want to <u>see</u> them.
Yeah yeah, we'll think on it. 'Bye ya, Charles. You relax up there, ya hear?
Great idea, Maxie! Those Japanese could <u>run</u> it for us. Build them a dormitory in the woods. Listen, think right about it, will you? We've almost got the house ready, you bring Sarah with you and I'll show you.
No listen... we'll talk about this visiting later, I gotta go, I gotta meeting on the Japanese joint venture.
Just a minute, Maxie. Somebody...
No, no, c'mon, Max, you know me. I've got plans. You gotta come up here and see, then I'll tell you about it.
Then we own a whole <u>town</u> full of nowhere.
Not <u>a building</u>! That's the beauty of it. I think I can buy the <u>whole town</u>. These people don't know the value of their property!
I'm sorry already.
Lydia, I will never forgive you for embarrassing me in front of my social inferiors. You help us with these ghosts or you'll be sorry.
It doesn't matter. What matters is I've got a roomful of guests down there, who think I'm a fraud. I am going to teach you something here Lydia. You've <u>got</u> to take the right tone in things like this, or people -- whether they're dead or alive -- people will walk all <u>over</u> you. Come on out, or I will make death so miserable that you will wish you had never <u>lived</u>!
Shhhh. They didn't commit suicide.
All right, you dead people! Come on out, or we'll break down this door and drag you out on the ropes you hanged yourself with!
Of <u>course</u> we weren't scared. Just a little startled. One of those sushi dropped down my Kamali.
I think the reason is they were trying to scare you, and you didn't get scared --
Tried to convince me that this house is haunted. Kids. Kids. Kids! I love them.
It wasn't a joke.
Lydia tried to play a most amusing joke on me this afternoon.
I saw some ghosts.
Don't you <u>dare</u>.
Don't you <u>dare</u> talk to others about me. I'm an <u>artist</u>! The only thing that scares me is being embarrassed in front of my friends. Do you know how hard it is to get civilized people to set foot in this part of Connecticut? Not a solitary word of this pubescent tripe to anyone.
I <u>told</u> them you were too mean to be afraid.
I can't believe you are doing this to me! <u>Ghosts</u>. I am giving a dinner party for seven people tonight. Otho has agreed to come back for the demolition of the attic. My agent, Bernard, is bringing some woman who writes for <u>Architectural Digest</u>. In fact, no one here tonight has not been in <u>Vanity Fair</u>. Except you.
Joke! Joke! Aspirin! It doesn't matter what brand.
Any particular kind?
<u>You jerks</u>! That is my art, and it is <u>dangerous</u>! You think I want to die like that? Lydia. Moving is a family affair. So buckle down now and go get Mommy some drugs.
I say let's keep it the way it is.
We'll be <u>the</u> art center of summer New York. I'll teach those phony gallery creeps to refuse my sculpture. And when Otho and I get through with this house, you people are not going to recognize it.
This is our first meal in this house, Lydia. Why don't we all do our little private parts to make it a pleasant one?
I plan to have a stroke from the amount of MSG that's in this food.
I don't know.
What's happening to them?
Oh, they're still here. They're Just not showing up.
Are they still here, Otho?
Look at the tiny figures.
Look at that <u>detail</u>!
We're dealing with Tracy and Hepburn here, a very sophisticated pair. We must protect them, treat them with respect, <u>nur</u>ture them.
It does indicate a marvelously urbane sense of humor on the part of these ghosts -- that they actually appear in <u>sheets</u>!
She's been without therapy up here and I will not allow her to ruin...
Oh, Delia, lighten up!
<u>No</u>! Do not encourage this little... person.
Now, Lydia... Favor us about your ghosts.
Probably the world's largest <u>Reader's</u> <u>Digest</u> collection! C'mon, let's have some chablis, Otho, I'm laid bare by this experience. Entirely bare.
I have a feeling there's some very interesting space behind this door.
Maybe Charles does.
You don't have a key?
Let's see. We could turn that into a media room.
'I' will tell you what is boring. Once you cover up the wallpaper, knock down a few walls, alter the traffic patterns, and -- perhaps -- only perhaps -- think about an inground pool -- the place <u>might</u> just be livable. What's on the third floor?
Oh, as long as we're here...
That's Charles' study. But you don't have to even look in there. He'll love whatever you do to it. He's such a sheep.
Is there much more of this torture?
Be brave! Otho take care! Onward!
Otho, I can<u>not</u> <u>live</u> with these cheap domestic floor tiles.
<u>I know</u>! We just have to <u>pray</u> that the other closets are bigger than this one.
<u>Oh my God</u>!
Of course, her favorite color! How <u>beautiful</u>!
Blue-green! Hydrated chromic oxide! Remember I'm schooled in chemistry. I was a hair analyst! Briefly. Interior design is a <u>science</u>, Delia! Think of me as Doctor Otho. And this patient is truly <u>sick</u>!
Viridian? What is...?
What do you think?
<u>I know</u>... I read your book, <u>The</u> <u>Haunted Tapestries of the Waldorf</u>.
You read my <u>mind</u>! I love clients who can read my mind. I don't think people realize how strong a connection there is between interior decoration and the supernatural.
I thought I saw something.
No time like the present, as my wicked stepmother used to say.
The rest of the house is probably worse. When can you and I get started?
Is the rest of the house as bad as this?
I'm <u>so</u> glad you could leave the city to consult me, Otho.
That was the single most unattractive window treatment I have ever seen in the entire of my existence.
Well, I just placed a call to your mother. She had stepped out but I have some news for her.
It's okay. How's the dirt business?
Hellooo! How's school?
Remind me to talk to your mother about the dress code. I'm sure you're going to be very happy there.
Yes, but I'm going to live at home.
Are we going to be seeing you at Miss Shannon's Boarding School?
That's a skeleton key. It'll open any door in that house. Will you give it to your father? And you might mention that I single-handedly decorated the house. In case he needs advice in that area. Come see me.
Is this the key to the attic?
What happened to the people who used to live here?
Well there's a Little Deetz at least. Boy, when you city people do something, you do it right, don't you?
As flies the lizard Serpent fell; As goblin vizard, At the spell Of pale wizard, Sinks to hell; The buried, dead, and slain... Rise again.
Their wedding clothes.
Their wedding clothes.
I'll need something personal of theirs.
Wait a minute! What am I worried about? Otho, you can't even change a tire!
That's slavery and murder. You don't know these people. They're just like you and me. They're nice people!
Perhaps if I were properly motivated.
All presences have a home space. A place where they live, so to speak. Where do they hide out?
They don't want to come down.
My sentiments exactly. Porcelain is for teeth!
Otho, that's terrible.
Hold your breath and we'll pull.
It's bad luck. And I believe hugely in luck.
Yes, Robert - I am. I'll go tell Eve about Ben now, Robert.
I see... ... And you are really a gardener, aren't you?
Yes. I love Eve very much.
... You've become quite a close friend of Eve's - haven't you Mr... ... Chance...?
Eve is going to stay. The house will not be closed.
In a day or two, yes.
Will you be leaving now, Robert?
Yes, I suppose that's true.
Yes, Robert. I have seen it before. It happens to old people.
... He's gone, Chauncey.
Hell yes - walk. You're meeting the President, aren't you?
I would like to walk today.
Thank you, Robert.
... It's five of, you'd best get on in there.
How do I know when it's ten o'clock?
Why, that's terrific, Chauncey.
Yes, Ben told me to be in his room at ten o'clock.
He does, does he?
Yes. Ben called me. He wants me to meet the President.
... Oh? You've heard?
Yes, Robert. I know about the President.
... Oh. ... My God, I only wish that Benjamin had your recuperative powers... Anyway, the President offered to sit in for Ben at the meeting, quite a nice gesture, I felt. He's due here soon, I believe.
... Were you going somewhere?
Hardly any, Robert.
... Benjamin has been hounding me to allow him to address the annual meeting of his Financial Institute today, but obviously, the strain would be impossible... How about here, Chauncey, any soreness?
Yes, Robert. But it's not bad.
I swear, Chauncey, between you and Benjamin, I've got my hands full... ... Say, that is coming along, the swelling has gone down considerably... ... Any pain here?
Shame on you, Chauncey - you should let me be the judge of that. Please, sit in the chair.
It's fine today, Robert.
Chauncey, there you are. What are you doing on that leg?
Yes, Robert. I will.
... And please call me Robert.
Yes, I will.
I'll send Wilson up to take you for X-rays, Mr. Gardiner. Feel free to use the telephone, and please let me know if you have any discomfort.
Fine. Would you like me to speak to your personal physician?
Yes, I could stay here. Thank you.
Good, keep your weight off that leg, Mr. Gardiner. In fact, it would be best if you could stay here for a day or two, if that would be would be possible. Since Benjamin became ill we have our own hospital downstairs. I can promise you the finest in care, unless, of course, you would prefer to go elsewhere.
Oh, I see... ... Well, then... You're a very funny man, Mr. Gardiner. You caught me off guard, I must admit...
There's no need for a claim, the garden is a healthy one.
Then you wish to handle this matter through your attorneys?
Thomas Franklin, an attorney.
Thomas? Who's Thomas?
Claim...? ... Oh, claim, that's what Thomas asked me.
Yes. Are you planning on making any sort of claim against the Rand's?
... Straight out?
Just to take the proper precautions, Mr. Gardiner, I'd recommend we take you downstairs and X-ray your leg. ... By the way, Mr. Gardiner, I would like to ask you something straight out.
You can pull your trousers up, now.
However, with injuries such as this, I have run into minor hemorrhaging, which really isn't too serious at the time, but can cause secondary problems if not looked after.
Yes. I think so, too.
It's good that there was no apparent damage to the bone.
But not for long...
You were wrong, it did hurt.
Now, you'll barely feel this. It won't hurt at all.
I understand. I've seen it done before.
The injection will ease the pain and swelling, Mr. Gardiner.
I know, Robert... But, strangely enough, I don't feel too bad about now... I feel all right... I guess it's easier... knowing Chauncey is here... to take care of things...
It's not good, Ben - I'm sure you can feel it.
No more, Robert... No more needles...
In a minute, Robert - in a minute... Chauncey, I would like to ask a favor of you...
And you, Benjamin, must be strong and brave for me. Turn over, please.
We have common foes, Chauncey - kid lawyers and our physician!
Some pain is to be expected... ... And I think what would be best for the two of you is a good night's rest. ... It's late, I'm afraid it's time for my patients to prepare for bed.
That is so true. You're different, Chauncey... Quite different than most men.
... No, of course you don't. Excuse me for being so presumptuous. No man knows everything about another man - however, very few are honest enough to admit it.
Of course! By kid-lawyers!
To everyone, I'm afraid. The Government controls are so restricting that the Medical Profession, as we know it, is being legislated out of existence.
I know exactly what you mean. Today the businessman is at the mercy of kid-lawyers from the SEC. All they want to do is regulate our natural growth! It's happening across the country!
I think we'd better go look for him. David!
I do - we do - both of us, Ben and I feel so much for Chauncey...
You really care for him, don't you, Eve?
We have to find him, Robert - he could be lost, something may have happened, we can't leave him!
I wish he were here...
I don't think so, he should be along soon...
... Do you think we should look for him?
Chauncey is so sensitive... He was overcome with grief...
... He walked off...
He's resting comfortably now. There's no cause for alarm, yet...
... But he's...?
... Eve - this has been an exhausting day for Ben...
No, Eve... I'm sorry.
Good. It might be pleasant for a couple of days. ... Robert... Is there any improvement...?
At times, yes. But that's not an uncommon reaction to such an accident. Actually, I found him to have quite a sense of humor.
He's very intense, and internal, don't you think?
How true. Mr. Gardiner may be a welcome change of pace.
Yes, he is different... Not the kind of person one usually meets in Washington.
Not necessary, but preferable. I don't think he'll be a bother, he seems like a most refreshing sort of man.
Stay here? Is that necessary?
A rather large contusion, but I don't feel there is any serious damage. I'd like to keep an eye on him, though - I suggested that he stay here for a couple of days.
I wanted some fresh air, Robert. How is Mr. Gardiner?
Good God, Eve - you'll freeze out here.
Certainly, glad to be of help.
Fine. Thank you, Mr. Franklin.
Of course, Doctor, I understand.
I see. Mr. Franklin, I must ask you and Miss Hayes to keep this incident with Mr. Gardiner to yourselves. There's no telling what he was involved in, and the matter may be extremely confidential. So please, not a word.
Well, he said it was his, he walked us through it.
Hmmm. You say he showed you his garden?
Another thing that baffles me, Doctor - what was his connection with the deceased? Major financial dealings, obviously - but our firm has no record of any such transactions.
I have no idea...
... And he told us that he had been living there since he was a child, working as a gardener. He showed us a room in the garage, where he said he stayed, and I... Well, I didn't really believe him, of course - but why the act?
Gentlemen, needless to say, there is going to be a full Congressional investigation of your respective operations. Good night.
Well, Mr. President... They don't quite know what to think.
And what do the boys around Intelligence think?
I don't think that's entirely true, Grover.
Very well... Can we rule out inefficiency...?
Gardiner is not a foreign agent, there are now sixteen countries investigating the man. We can rule that out.
Gentlemen, I didn't call you here at such an hour to make accusations, I just want to explore the possibilities. Now, I have three questions; Is the man a foreign agent? Or, have we suddenly found that our methods of gathering data are grossly inefficient? Or, thirdly, have the man's files been destroyed? Now, I'd like some answers.
Please, hold still, Mr. Gardiner.
I understand. I've never seen anything like this on television.
Well, I still don't believe I know the man, Mr. Gardiner. Now, hold still.
A Black man gave me the message.
Oh. I have a message for him.
No sir, I don't believe I do.
Do you know Raphael?
No. I like this attic very much.
Fine. They felt that since you had such close ties with the President, you would be a splendid choice. ... Can I help you? Are you looking for something?
Yes. I would like to be on that show.
Of course. They would like you to appear on the show tonight. The Vice President was scheduled, but he had to cancel, and they asked if you would be interested.
Yes, I have seen that show on television.
Morton Hull, the producer of 'This Evening' just called.
Oh, Mr. Gardiner, I've been looking all over.
Would you care to take it, sir?
Mr. Gardiner, I have a telephone call for you. Sidney Courtney, the financial editor of the Washington Post.
Yes. I've been looking for you, too, Eve.
Oh, Chauncey, darling... Where have you been? We thought we'd lost you - we've been looking all over!
That's very interesting, Eve.
Dearest, you uncoil my wants; desire flows within me, and when you watch me my passion dissolves it. You set me free. I reveal myself to myself and I am drenched and purged.
... But I've never done... ... You mean...? When... When... When I do it? ... When I touch myself...?
Yes. It's very good, Eve.
... Is that all you want...? ... To watch me...?
Yes. I like to watch.
To watch...? To watch me...?
I like to watch.
I just don't excite you at all... I don't know what you want... I don't know what you like...
... Come in, Chauncey - please come in...
Yes, Eve. Ben is very wise.
I feel so close to you, so safe with you, Chauncey... ... And Benjamin understands that, dearest... He understands and accepts my feelings for you...
It must be the punch, and it is stuffy in here -- I feel it a little myself. You're an angel, my dear - thank God there are still men like you around to give aid and comfort.
He was very ill, I stayed with him for a while.
Upstairs? Chauncey, you're always involved in some sort of discussion...
No. I was with a man. We went upstairs.
Chauncey, where have you been? I was afraid you got bored and left, or that you were with some mysterious woman.
Chauncey, this is Mr. Dennis Watson of the State Department.
Thank you, Eve.
I've never seen anyone handle the media as well as you, Chauncey. You're so cool and detached - almost as if you were born to it.
... I guess I may as well be honest about my feelings, Chauncey, as I know you are I am in love with you... I love you and I want you... And I know that you know it and I'm grateful that you've decided to wait until... Until...
Yes. That could be true.
I know you are, Chauncey... ... You conquer a woman from within herself, you infuse in her the need and desire and the longing for your love.
Yes, Eve. I'm very glad that you didn't open.
... I'm grateful to you, Chauncey... I would have opened to you with a touch, and you know that... ... But you're so strong - I can trust myself with you. I'm glad, Chauncey - I'm glad that you showed so much restraint...
Yes, Eve. I know that.
... You know, Chauncey... I want us to be... I want us... You and I to become... close... I want us to become very close, you know...?
No, Eve. I like you to be here.
I know... ... So are you, Chauncey ... ... Do you mind my being here, like this?
I like the President. He is a very nice man.
Well, it seems you've been described as one of the architects of the President's speech. And your own comments from the 'This Evening' show are quoted side by side with the President's.
No, Eve. I don't read the papers.
Chauncey! Have you seen the papers?
Good night, Eve.
... Good night, Chauncey.
... I have very few friends, Chauncey... And Benjamin's friends are all quite a bit older...
Oh. Well, we can fix up one of Ben's for you tomorrow night. Sophie insists an Black Tie.
No, thank you.
... You don't happen to have a tuxedo in your suitcase, do you?
I know you do - you and your television... ... Good luck, Chauncey.
That's good. I like to watch, too.
He's tired, Chauncey - but he's going to watch you tonight. We'll both be watching.
How is Ben feeling?
And Benjamin sends along his best wishes.
Thank you, Eve.
Chauncey, I just wanted to wish you well. I know you'll be smashing.
Yes, Eve. You'll be all right.
I'll be all right, Chauncey you go ahead with Mrs. Aubrey...
So am I, Eve.
... I'm... ... I'm very grateful that you're here, Chauncey... ... With us ...
Yes, so do we.
Oh, I like that very much.
What is that?
Oh, no. She brought me my meals.
Oh, his maid!... Stupid me, I thought perhaps she was someone that you may have been romantically involved with.
Yes. I liked Louise very much. She was his maid.
I'm sorry... ... And what about Louise? YOU mentioned that she had gone, were you close to her also?
Yes. I was.
Forgive me, Chauncey - I didn't mean to pry. You must have been very close to him.
Oh, I see... Your mentor, perhaps?
He was a very wealthy man, he looked after me since I was young.
Was he a relative? Or an intimate friend?
... Chauncey... Last night you mentioned an old man, that died.
Yes, he is. I'm sorry I didn't get to see him.
Fine. He's very nice.
Good. I'm glad to hear that. ... How did you like meeting the President?
Yes. It's feeling much better now.
Your leg must be getting better.
Good night, Eve.
... Good night, Chauncey.
... Why... No, I don't think so...
Yes. Are you going to leave and close the house when he dies?
I like Ben very much... He reminds me of the Old Man...
Yes... I know, Chauncey.
Ben is very ill, Eve - I've seen that before.
... And Ben is just mad about you - you've lifted his spirits so - it's just... Well, it's just a real pleasure having you with us.
Thank you, Eve - I like this house very much.
Chauncey, I wanted to tell you how dreadful I feel about the accident today, but that I'm delighted that you are staying with us.
I am a very good gardener.
Oh, I know exactly what you mean. I sometimes enjoy puttering around myself, such a pleasant way to forget one's troubles.
No. I like it here.
I hope that staying here won't be an inconvenience for you.
No. The Old Man died and Louise left.
... Would you like us to notify anyone for you?
No. It won't do that.
Won't your injury prevent you from attending to business, Mr. Gardiner?
I admire that in a person. As for myself, I find there is so much to assimilate that it can become quite muddling at times...
I can see that it must be very important for you to stay informed of all the latest events.
I like to watch. This is fine.
... I'll feel so relieved after Dr. Allenby examines your leg. After that, David can run you on home, or to your office or wherever you'd prefer... ... Is there anything special you would like to watch?
Oh... Well, I'm very sorry...
Yes. I lost my remote control.
Did you lose something?
Oh. Well, they're just a wonderful couple, we've been friends for years. We visit their island quite often.
No, Eve. I'm not related to Basil and Perdita.
Oh... Mr. Gardiner... Mr. Chauncey Gardiner... You're not related to Basil and Perdita Gardiner are you?
No. I'm a gardener.
Pardon me, was that Mr. Chance?
My name is Chance.
May I ask your name?
Oh, by the way - I'm Eve Rand.
I would like to watch television.
Yes. Thank you.
Would you care for a drink?
Fine, it will save a lot of unnecessary fuss and it will be so much more pleasant for you... David, we'll just go on home. Jeffrey, would you call and let them know?
Yes. My husband has been very ill. His doctor and nurses are staying with us. Those hospitals can be so impersonal - why, it might be hours before you are treated...
Your family doctor?
I see. ... Say, would you mind seeing our family doctor?
It's feeling better, but it's still very sore.
... Why, yes, he is... Is your leg feeling any better?
Yes. He's a very careful driver.
These can be such trying situations everyone seems to make such a to-do over a simple little accident. Of course, they can be very frightening, and I must apologize for David, he's never had an accident before.
Yes. I am.
I hope you're comfortable.
Why, there certainly is. You must see a doctor, I insist on it. Please, let us take you.
There's no need for a hospital.
... Won't you let us do something for you? Your leg should be examined, we could take you to a hospital.
I have nothing more to say.
I see. Then one more quick question, Mr. Gardiner; since we at the Post would like to, uh - update our profile on you - what exactly is your business?
Yes, that is correct. I think you should ask Mr. Rand that.
Of course. But since he is ill I'm taking the liberty of asking you.
I think you should ask Mr. Rand that.
Good, sir. And so, it seems, did the President - but we would like to have some facts; such as, uh... What exactly is the relationship between yourself and that of the First American Financial Corporation?
The President is a nice person. I enjoyed it very much.
Then, I'll be brief. I covered the President's speech at the Financial Institute today, and since the Post would like to be as exact as possible, we would appreciate your comments on the meeting that took place between Mr. Rand, the President and yourself.
No. I'm not busy.
I'm sorry to disturb you, Mr. Gardiner, I know you must be very busy.
Hello, Mr. Gardiner. This is Sid Courtney, Washington Post.
I'm glad you like it, Mr. Gardiner.
Yes. It's a very good show.
Do you realize, Mr. Gardiner, that more people will be watching you tonight than all those who have seen theater plays in the last forty years?
Of course, Mr. Gardiner, the fact that you occupy such a position in the world of finance makes you ideally suited to provide our millions of viewers with an explanation of this nation's economic crisis.
Mr. Gardiner, I'm Morton Hull, the producer of 'This Evening.'
Your foot! Give me your foot!!
I don't want Robert.
Do you need a doctor? I could call Robert...
Yes, I do, it's very good.
... Are you sure you like it?
Yes. It's very tiny, but it's good.
Do you like it?
Yes, very well, thank you.
Can you see well?
We must speak again, Mr. Gardiner, many times!
Yes, Eve. That would be good.
And yours, sir - Chauncey Gardiner! How poetic! Chauncey, a name of uncertain meaning! And Gardiner, a bit of the French, a suggestion of a stroll through the flowers! A beautiful name, my friend!
Yes. I like that name very much.
Ho! Ho! A dash of American humor! Vladimar Skrapinov!
Yes, it is. Would you tell me your name again, please?
Yes, it is very good!
So you know your Krylov in Russian, do you? Mr. Gardiner, I must confess I had suspected as much all along - I know an educated man when I meet one!
So you know Krylov!
Do you think so? Do you think so?
Yes. Tell me, Mr. Gardiner - do you by any chance enjoy Krylov's fables? I ask this because there is something... there is something Krylovian about you.
I certainly do.
Bravo! Bravo! Our chairs are indeed almost touching! And we want to remain seated on them, correct? We don't want them snatched from under us, am I right? Because if one goes, the other goes, and then - boom! Boom! And we are both down before our time, you see? And neither of us wants that, do you agree?
We are not far... ... our chairs almost touch.
And I have noticed in you a certain reticence regarding political issues - so why not a coming together? An interchange of opinion? We may find, my friend, that we are not so far from each other, not so far!
Yes, I understand.
To exchange our thoughts - what does a Russian know about business? On the other hand, what does an American know about diplomacy?
Yes, I agree, I think so too.
... Mr. Gardiner, I wish to be quite candid - considering the gravity of your economic situation, shouldn't we, the diplomats, and you, the businessman - get together more often?
Yes, so I've heard, a shame... As you know, we in the Soviet Union have the keenest interest in developments of the First American Financial Corporation... We are pleased to hear that you may fill Benjamin's place should he fail to recover. Be seated, please, Mr. Gardiner.
Ben is very ill.
I'm sorry we haven't met sooner, Mr. Gardiner. I had the pleasure of seeing you on television last night and I listened with great interest to your down-to-earth philosophy. I'm not surprised that it was so quickly endorsed by the President. ... Tell me, Mr. Gardiner, just how serious is Benjamin's illness? I did not want to upset Mrs. Rand by discussing it in detail.
Yes, Eve. I shall yield too.
Regretfully, Mrs. Rand - I shall yield the pleasure of your company to others.
How is my dear friend Benjamin feeling?
You must sit with us, my friend, we have much to discuss.
... I've worked very hard and enjoyed my life... I've known success... and I've felt love... My associates, Chauncey - I've talked with them about you... They're eager to meet you... very eager to meet you... I'm very fond of you, Chauncey... And I understand Eve... Tell her that... tell her I'm madly in love with her...
Yes. I would like to do that.
She cares for you and she needs your help, Chauncey... there's much to be looked after...
Let me feel the strength in your hand, Chauncey... Let me feel your strength... Yes, that's good... I hope, Chauncey - I hope that you'll stay with Eve... Take care of her, watch over her, she's a delicate flower, Chauncey...
Oh, I see.
... I'm about to surrender the Horn of Plenty for the Horn of Gabriel, my boy...
Yes, Ben - are you going to die now?
... Chauncey... Chauncey...
Good. Together, the two of you should create quite a stir - I can already hear the gossip.
Yes. I would like to escort Eve.
Senator Rowley's widow, Sophie, is hosting an evening reception tomorrow evening honoring Ambassador Skrapinov of the Soviet Union... I think it's rather obvious that Robert won't allow me to attend, so - would you go in my place, and escort Eve?
And now, Chauncey, I'm afraid you must excuse me - I'm very tired all of a sudden.
Thank you, Ben.
And, please, Chauncey - don't rush your decision. I know you're not a man to act on the spur of the moment.
Oh, sure you do, the financial assistance program. I think you might be just the man to take charge of such an undertaking. I'd like you to meet with the members of the Board, we'll be able to discuss the matter at greater length at that time.
... You know, Chauncey, there's something about you... You're direct, you grasp things quickly and you state them plainly. You don't play games with words to protect yourself. I feel I can speak to you frankly... You know what I was talking to you about last night?
I'm glad he came, Ben. It was nice talking to the President.
He was quite impressed with your comments, Chauncey - he hears my sort of analysis from everyone, but yours, unfortunately - seldom if ever at all.
Yes, Ben - he is.
He's a decent fellow, the President, isn't he?
Yes. That is correct.
I think what my most insightful friend is saying, Mr. President, is that we welcome the inevitable seasons of nature, yet we are upset by the seasons of our economy.
... Maybe one day you shall find yourself in a similar position, Chauncey... Maybe one day...
I see, Ben.
Yes, when I was younger I had thoughts about public office... But I found, Chauncey - that I was able to contribute more as a private citizen... of course, my wealth provided me with considerable influence, but I've tried, believe me, not to misuse that power... It's extremely important, Chauncey, when one is in a position of eminence, that he does not allow himself to become blinded to the needs of the country... The temptations are strong, and I've been labeled a 'kingmaker' by many, but I have tried to stay open to voices of the people... I have tried to remain honest to myself...
Thank you, Ben. ... The nurse did a very good job, Ben.
No one likes a dying man, my boy - because few know what death is. All we know is the terror of it. But you're an exception, Chauncey - that's what I admire in you, your marvelous balance. You don't stagger back and forth between fear and hope - you're a truly peaceful man.
Hah! It's all make-up, Chauncey... I asked nurse Teresa to fix me up, I didn't want the President to think I was going to die during our talk.
You're looking much better today, Ben.
Well, that's good news, my boy.
Yes, Ben. My leg is not very sore.
Chauncey, up and around this morning, are you?
... Oh? Robert, take a look, would you?
I could give it some thought, Ben, but my leg is very sore.
Reluctant to speak, eh, Chauncey? Well, I can understand that. When a man loses everything, anger has a tendency to block out reason for a time. Just give it some thought, work with the idea, I'm sure you'll have plenty to say in a few days.
Yes, I'm sure it is. That's what they say, anyway.
It's a very pleasant room, Ben.
Now, wait a minute, Chauncey you are young, you are healthy, for God's sake don't give up on yourself! You have to fight! You can't let those bastards keep you down! I don't want to hear any more from you about the 'Room Upstairs'. That's where I'm going soon.
But I don't have that any more... ... All that's left for me now is the room upstairs.
Thank you, Ben. The garden that I left was such a place. Everything which grew there was with the labor of my own hands. I planted seeds and watered them and watched everything grow.
A gardener! Well put, Chauncey excellent! Isn't that what a businessman is? A gardener? A person that makes flinty soil productive with the labor of his own hands, who waters it with the sweat from his own brow, and who creates a place of value for his family and community? Yes, Chauncey, what a brilliant metaphor -- yes, indeed, a productive businessman is a laborer in his own vineyard.
I see. I would like to work in your garden.
Do we have a garden? Hah! Tomorrow, Chauncey, you will see our gardens.
And I'm Ben.
Yes. Chauncey is fine.
That's good, Mr. Gardiner. Or may I call you Chauncey?
What'd I tell you? Kid-lawyers! The S.E.C.! Damn them!
Yes. Shut down and locked by the attorneys.
Oh. When you say 'Your house has been closed', you mean to say that your business was shut down?
No, thank you. My house has been closed.
... So am I, my boy - so am I.
Yes. I am very hungry.
... You will join us for dinner, won't you, Mr. Gardiner?
... We're prisoners, Mr. Gardiner - we're prisoners of tubes and technology.
Yes. You look very sick.
Failure of the bone marrow to produce red blood cells... Not a damn thing they can do about it. Oh, they can make me comfortable, prolong my life with steroid therapy and transfusions... And what makes my blood boil, what little I have left, that is, Mr. Gardiner - is that it's generally a young person's disease... Here I am, getting on in years and about to die of a young person's disease...
Yes. I like that very much.
Sure you do. This ward is air tight, I have a little extra oxygen pumped in, keeps my spirits up.
I feel very good in here.
... I see.
Welcome to Rand Memorial Hospital, Mr. Gardiner.
Oh, you can tell her later. She'll never miss you in this crowd.
Tell Eve? You mean Mrs. Rand?
I want to tell Eve.
Well, if that's what you want, then I want it too. We can go this way.
Yes. I like to watch very much.
Watch? You mean just watch me? Doing it alone?
I like to watch.
We could do it now, we can go upstairs. ... Please, it's time for us. Come upstairs.
What sort of bed is it?
Sure you do! No one reads!... Listen, book publishing isn't exactly a bed of roses these days...
Yes. I like to watch.
Of course not! No one has the time to read! One glances at things, watches television...
I can't read.
Of course, who can nowadays? I have trouble writing a post card to my children! Look, we could give you a six figure advance, provide you with the very best ghostwriter, research assistants, proof readers...
I can't write.
Mr. Gardiner, my editors and I have been wondering if you'd consider writing a book for us? Something on your political philosophy. What do you say?
Mr. Gardiner, I'm Ronald Stiegler, of Harvard Books.
Oh, Mr. Rand, of course. Right this way, sir.
Yes, I would like to see Ben.
... Did you wish to see someone, sir?
Yes. I would like to go to Rand Memorial Hospital.
May I help you, Mr. Gardiner?
Good day, Sally.
Good day, Mr. Chance.
Yes. I have seen styles on television.
It is quite amazing how those clothes have come back into style.
I am allowed to go to the attic and select any of the Old Man's suits. They all fit me very well. I can also take his shirts, shoes and coats.
No. That's where Joe fixed the bricks.
Might you have a birth certificate, Mr. Chance?
How about taxes, Mr. Chance, surely you must have paid taxes?
Yes. Of men and women.
I never needed money.
What about money?
Oh. Thank you.
Your appearance doesn't suggest that at all, Mr. Chance.
... Then you really are a gardener?
Mr. Chance, I'm very pleased to meet you.
Yes sir. I'll take care of that.
... My suitcase.
... Yes. You can take me.
I assure you, sir, David is a very careful driver. Please, won't you let us take you?
I've never ridden in an automobile.
It's starting to swell, is it painful?
Of course. I would like to look.
Let's have a look, do you mind?
I don't think we should call anyone just yet, it may not even be all that serious.
It's very sore.
Can you walk? It's not broken, is it?
No. I'm not badly injured. But my leg is very sore.
This is terrible, sir - I hope you're not badly injured...
... Yes sir - elevator!
... Hmmm... Elevator.
Yes. It seems to be.
Yes sir, I guess that's true smallest room in the house.
... That is a very small room.
How long? I don't know, see what the doctor says ...
How long do we stay in here?
No - but Mr. Rand does have one with an electric motor, that way he can get around by himself.
Does it have a television?
You're gonna need somebody, someone's gotta be around for you, boy... ... You oughta find yourself a lady, Chance... But I guess it oughta be an old lady, 'cause you ain't gonna do a young one any good, not with that little thing of yours... ... You're always gonna be a little boy, ain't you? ... Goodbye, Chance...
... Well, ain't you the gentleman this mornin'... ... gotta go now, Chance...
I'm going to work in the garden.
Well, no more stewin' those prunes every mornin', that's somethin', I guess... ... what are you goin' to do now, Chance?
Yes, I'm very hungry.
Oh, Lord, Chance - I don't know what I was expectin' from you... I'm sorry for yellin' like I did... No sir, I just don't know what I was expectin' ... ... I 'spose I'd better gather up some breakfast for you...
Yes. It is.
Well, ain't that the truth...
Yes, Louise. I have seen it often. It happens to old people.
Dammit, Boy! Is that all you got to say? More gobbledegook? That Old Man's layin' up there dead as hell and it just don't make any difference to you!
... Yes, Louise, it's snowing in the garden today. Have you looked outside and seen the snow? It's very white.
Then I got the hell out of that room and called the doctor and I think I woke him probably, he wasn't any too alert. He just said, 'Yeah, he's been expectin' it and said he'd send somebody over...' Lord, what a mornin'!
Yes. I've seen that done.
Must of happened durin' the night, I don't know... Lord, he wasn't breathin' and as cold as a fish. I touched him, just to see, and you believe me, Chance - that's doin' more than I get paid to do... Then I just covered him up, pulled the sheet over his head...
... I see.
He's dead, Chance! The Old Man's dead!
Good morning, Louise.
Is his back feeling better?
... Back up those stairs - damn... That Man's needin' me more and more just before he never needs me again...
I'm afraid he's slippin' a bit with every hour that goes by...
... The Old Man is getting weaker, Chance.
... Good evening, Louise.
... Evening, Chance.
I am a very serious gardener.
I'm sorry to say that our time is running short, but before we close, I'd like to ask one final question. What sort of gardener, sir, would you be?
Well, Mr. Gardiner, from the sound of our audience, I'd say that your words are a most welcome respite from what we've been hearing from others...
Yes. We need a very good gardener.
Don't we need a leader capable of guiding us through the seasons? The bad as well as the good?
Yes, I know the garden very well. I have worked in it all my life. It is a good garden and a healthy one; its trees are healthy and so are its shrubs and flowers, as long as they are trimmed and watered in the right seasons. The garden needs a lot of care. I do agree with the President; everything in it will grow strong, and there is plenty of room in it for new trees and new flowers of all kinds.
Well, let me rephrase the question; the President compared the economy of this country to a garden, and stated that after a period of decline a time of growth would naturally follow. Do you go along with this belief?
I know that, Mr. Gardiner.
Yes. I was there with Ben.
Come now, Mr. Gardiner, before his speech at the Financial Institute the President consulted with you and Benjamin Rand, did he not?
Fine, then let's get started. The current state of our country is of vital interest to us all, and I would like to know if you agree with the President's view of the economy?
No. I don't object.
Yes... Of course, you know, Mr. Gardiner, that I always prefer an open and frank conversation with my guests, I hope you don't object to that.
I hope so.
... Well, your anonymity will be a thing of the past from now on.
Yes. That is surprising.
I always find it surprising, Mr. Gardiner, to find men like yourself, who are working so intimately with the President, yet manage to remain relatively unknown.
I'd like to thank you for filling in on such short notice for the Vice President.
Mr. Gardiner, how very nice to have you with us this evening.
I think you do, Mr. Chance. However, I will reiterate, this house is closed and you must leave... Call me if you change your mind about signing. C'mon, Sally - let's grab a bite...
Move out? I don't understand, Thomas.
Very well, Mr. Chance - if you insist on dragging this matter on... But I must inform you this house will be closed tomorrow at noon. If indeed, you do reside here, you will have to move out.
But you won't sign, correct?
I have no claim, Thomas.
Come now, Mr. Chance.
No, Thomas. I don't know how to sign.
Good. That's good. Then if you would please sign a paper to that effect.
I'm fine, Thomas. The garden is a healthy one. There is no need for a claim.
Mr. Chance, assuming what you say is the truth, I would like to know what sort of claim you are planning to make against the deceased's estate.
I would like to stay and work in my garden.
What are your plans now, Mr. Chance?
Yes, I understand.
Mr. Chance, the fact remains that we have no information of your having any connection with the deceased.
The Old Man gave me nice television sets, this one has remote control. He has one just like it.
No, Thomas. I have never been in an automobile.
... Do you drive this, Mr. Chance?
No, I don't think so. And I have planted and shaped all the hedges, and in the springtime you will be able to see my flowers.
Are you related to the deceased, Mr. Chance?
Those trees were very young when I first arrived.
No, Thomas. But I have seen the Army on television.
Have you served in the Army?
You have me, I am here. What more proof do you need?
... We shall need some proof of your having resided here, Mr. Chance.
Yes, Thomas, that is correct. Then he stopped visiting my garden.
Come now, Mr. Jennings had been bedridden for thirty-five years, since he fractured his spine.
Yes and the Old Man used to come to my garden. He would read and rest there.
Mr. Chance, that was twenty-seven years ago.
Yes. I remember when he came. He was very fat and had short hair and showed me some pictures from a funny little book.
Joe Saracini. He was a mason that did some repairs on the brickwork at the rear of the house. That was in 1952.
... Joe? Who's Joe?
I have no need for a doctor or dentist. I have never been ill. I have never been allowed outside of this house, and, except for Joe, I have never had any visitors.
Then how about medical records? Could you give us the name of your doctor, or your dentist?
No, I do not have any of those.
Mr. Chance, perhaps you could show us some identification with your address -- a Driver's License, a credit card, checkbook?
I was given meals, and a home...
How were you paid?
How were you compensated for these duties you say you performed?
Do you have any proof of your employment, Mr. Chance - any checks from the deceased, any contracts or documents?
Yes, Thomas. I have always been here. I have always worked in the garden.
Since you were a child?
Ever since I can remember, since I was a child.
... How long have you been living here?
Yes. It's very cold outside today, isn't it, Thomas?
You live here? ... We don't have any record of that.
I live here.
... You've quite a sense of humor, Mr. Chance - but all kidding aside, may I ask just what you are doing here?
Louise?... The maid?... But she should have left earlier today...
Yes. Louise will bring me lunch.
Your lunch? You have a luncheon appointment here?
Yes. I'm waiting for my lunch.
... Are you waiting for someone? An appointment?
Yes, Thomas - I understand.
... We're with Franklin, Jennings and Roberts, the law firm handling the estate.
... The gardener? ... Yes, of course... Mr. Chance, this is Ms. Hayes.
Hello, Thomas... I'm Chance, the gardener.
Wonderful, we'll all look forward to seeing you. Is Eve around? I'd like to say hello.
Yes. I will.
... You will honor me and my family with a visit, won't you?
Yes. It has.
... Spring and summer... Yes, I see... Fall and winter. Yes, indeed... Could you go through that one more time, please, Mr. Gardiner?
That is correct. In a garden, growth has its season. There is spring and summer, but there is also fall and winter. And then spring and summer again...
... In the garden?
As long as the roots are not severed, all is well and all will be well in the garden.
Do you agree with Ben, Mr. Gardiner? Are we finished? Or do you think we can stimulate growth through temporary incentives?
Now, Ben, did you happen to get a chance to...
Yes, I will.
Well, Mr. Gardiner, that's just fine with me - I'm a man that appreciates a frank discussion... Be seated, please, Mr. Gardiner...
... Oh, really...
You look much taller on television, Mr. President.
Good morning, Mr. President.
I said - try again.
Sid, it's useless!
Sure, try again - where? There's nothing, it's like he never existed!
... Sid, be reasonable - I've been everywhere, there's no place left to check!
... I realize this sounds banal but there is no information of any sort on Gardiner. We have no material on him - zilch...
... Skip the levity, Kinney - what have you got?
... Gardiner is laconic, matter-of fact. The scuttlebutt is that he's a strong candidate for one of the vacant seats on the board of First American. But before we can do any sort of a piece on the man, we're going to need facts on his background... ... Kinney, what did you come up with?
... Thank you, Chauncey... Thank you very much. ... All right, Robert, I'm all yours.
... Ben, really...
That's good... That's good.
... Yes, I am, Ben.
I'm becoming quite attached to Chauncey - quite attached... ... And so are you, aren't you, Eve.
Do you need a secretary?
Oh. I'm very sorry. Well, if you have any need for any of our facilities, please do not hesitate to ask.
Hah!... Tell me the truth, Eve - if I wait until I feel better, will I ever meet the man?
Do you feel well enough for that?
Reasonable? Good, I'd like to meet a reasonable man. Why don't you ask this Gardiner to join us for dinner?
Oh, it wasn't all that bad, darling. We were fortunate that Mr. Gardiner turned out to be so reasonable.
I may be a shut-in, but I do not lack for news. I'm sorry you had to go through all that.
No, it's been a good day - better than yours, from what I've been told.
Tired... And I'm getting tired of being so tired. Other than that, I'm doing very well.
Oh, Ben - I miss you so when I'm out... How are you feeling?
I'll see you after the doctor has a look at your leg, Mr. Gardiner.
Thank you, Greta. I'll be with Mr. Rand if I'm needed.
Thank you, Wilson. That will be fine.
I shall take the gentleman to the third floor guest suite, ma'am. Dr. Allenby is standing by.
Good evening, Wilson.
Good evening, Mrs. Rand.
Would you two excuse me for a moment?
Come on, Eve. Let's let the men talk, there are so many people that have been asking about you.
Chauncey, this is Mrs. Sophia Rowley.
Oh, I've been just dying to meet you, Mr. Gardiner!
Sophie, this is Chauncey Gardiner...
And look who you brought with!
Eve, child! How nice of you to come.
Of course... I'm so sorry for you, Eve...
I can certainly understand that...
It's not that, I just...
It's your damn job. It never happened when you were a senator...
Oh, no, sweetheart - it's not you...
... Is it me? Is there something I've done?
No, that won't do any good.
... Maybe you should talk to somebody, darling.
Yeah... I'll have a talk with him as soon as...
Well, I think Jack needs some time alone with you, darling... He's getting to that age, you know... He really misses you...
Huh... I'm glad they're along with her, if you know what I mean... How about Jack?
Oh. Well, I just talked to Cindy this morning. She loves California, but to quote her, she says, 'The Secret Service is getting to be a drag.' I guess she wants her privacy...
... How are the kids getting along?
Well... He's either very, very bright or very, very dense - he's hard to figure... ... Let's just keep everything legal.
... It's very bizarre - I don't know what to think...
I really don't know, Tom - he seems so honest and simple... In a way, he's quite charming...
... What do you make of all this?
Gladly... ... The safe is in Mr. Jennings' bedroom, that'll be stop number one.
... Would you take me on a tour?
Yeah... He and my father used to ride together back in the thirties... Fox hunting... Before I was born...
... This is another world, Tom - I never would have believed it...
I said good night!
Sally Hayes is not a bitch - she's a damn fine attorney! I've got to talk to her about this Gardiner...
... Business, bullshit! Going out in the middle of the night to meet that bitch in a bar...
He does talk like one, but I think he's brilliant.
No! He's a real gardener!
Yes, Chauncey Gardiner.
It's that gardener!
Very good, Your Excellency.
Hmmm... Take this down. I want this quote included in the Tass coverage; 'Chauncey Gardiner, in an intimate discussion with Ambassador Skrapinov, noted that "Unless the leaders of the opposing political systems move the chairs on which they sit closer to each other, all of their seats will be pulled from under them by rapid social and political changes."'
Clearly, yes comrade.
I see. Clearly, such interest on their part is of great political significance.
Apparently the White House shares our curiosity - they have also launched an investigation, and, according to our sources, neither the F.B.I. nor the C.I.A. has met with success.
But... Where was this man Gardiner before last week?
There is no information available on the man before he moved into Benjamin Rand's. It has proven to be such a difficult task that it has resulted in the loss of one of our agents to the United States Government.
What do you mean there is nothing? That's impossible.
Sorry, Comrade Ambassador.
Quietly, please. Mr. Gardiner, for one, understands our language.
We have nothing on him, Ambassador Skrapinov.
Yes? What have you found?
Yes, chief - eight other foreign powers have put Gardiner under surveillance. We're around-the clock now, sir - I'll keep you posted.
Good. Anything else?
We have word that the Soviets have put out a top priority alert for information on Gardiner's background. So far, they haven't come up with a thing - what's more, as a result of their eagerness, one of their ablest agents blew his cover, we have him in custody at this time.
Sorry to disturb you, chief but we have new developments.
I would appreciate that.
Well, sir - it occurred to us that he might be an agent of a foreign power. But, we ruled that out, as they invariably are provided with too much documentation, too much American identity... We, uh...don't quite know what to make of it yet, sir... But we'll keep on top of it, Mr. President - we'll come up with the answer.
... So what does all that add up to?
I'd like to hear that data, Kaufman.
Well, we do have data from Honeycutt's sources, Chief - but it isn't pertinent.
What the hell are you talking about, Kaufman?
We... uh, have been unable to come up with any information before the man appeared at Mr. Rand's home ... and, uh...
So...? Where the hell is it?
This information goes back three days. I want the standard file, you know that.
This is not what I requested.
I do not want Benjamin Rand disturbed! You have other ways of gathering information than to trouble a dying man. Use whatever agencies are necessary to put together a detailed history of Chauncey Gardiner, if you run into problems, alert Honeycutt. I'll be in the office at seven in the morning and I would like to have it at that time. I've got to take a leak.
Yes, Mr. President, we attempted to contact Mr. Rand, but he was too ill to...
He's an advisor and close personal friend of Rand's! For Christ sakes, they have volumes of data on Benjamin!
Yes, sir - we are aware of all that, but still, we haven't been able to...
... Gentlemen, I quoted this man on national television today he is obviously a financial sophisticate of some reknown.
No problem, Chief.
And put it through on a Code Red - I want it as soon as possible.
Gardiner, yes, sir.
Kaufman, I'm going to need information on Mr. Chauncey Gardiner's background.
Let us toast to the success of the coup.
Thank you, Colonel.
You have proven that already, Comrade Skrapinov, you are to be congratulated for recognizing the importance of this man and establishing an early friendship.
Big business. I could work with that faction quite nicely, Colonel Novogrod.
That is correct, Comrade Skrapinov. We have ascertained that Gardiner heads a big-business power group that will soon be taking over the American government.
A coup d'etat! Of course, that was foreseen by Lenin himself!
But we are quite certain, comrade, that this man Gardiner is a leading member of an American elitist faction planning a coup d'etat.
That could be possible...
The rank-and-file in the FBI feel he is FBI, but others feel he is a CIA man who knows how to destroy FBI files.
You take care too, Bobby.
Take care of yourself, Ben.
You're right, Mr. President I don't like feeling sorry for myself.
Now, Ben, I won't have any of that. Why don't you listen to your good friend Chauncey this is a time to think of life!
Nonsense, Mr. President - I thank you for coming to spend time with a dying man.
I'm sorry, too. Well, Nancy wanted me to send along her best to the two of you - and, Ben, I want to thank you for your time and thoughts.
No, she flew up to Boston for another charity event. She'll be sorry to have missed you.
I'm afraid so.
It's that serious, huh?
... There is no longer any margin for inflation, it has gone as far as it can, you've reached your limits on taxation, dependence on foreign energy has reached a crisis, and, from where I see it, Mr. President, the Free Enterprise System has reached the breaking point. We are on the brink of another crash from which recovery might not be possible.
That's too big a risk, I can't take the chance.
I sympathize with your position, Mr. President, I know how difficult it is to be straightforward, the reaction to such a speech could be chaos.
Well, Ben... I...
Overall - pretty good. But, Mr. President, I think it's very dangerous to resort to temporary measures at this stage of the game.
Yes, I did.
I just wondered if you had gone over my speech, Ben.
Mr. Gardiner, my pleasure.
Mr. President, I'd like you to meet my dear friend, Mr. Chauncey Gardiner.
Well, I'm delighted to be here, my friend. I've missed you. Here, sit down, get off your feet.
I'm not convinced of that, Mr. President, but your visit has raised my spirits...
It's so good to see you too, Ben, you look terrific!
... Mr. President, how good to see you.
... and I want to show off his skills by performing a one-puppet extravaganza in Reno.
Oh yeah, he's good.
I'm being controlled by the world's greatest puppeteer, Craig Schwartz...
I'll get right to the point, Larry. I'm a puppet now...
This is my fiancee Maxine.
John! Great to see you! Sorry about the cunt at reception.
I'm pretty sure it was you. Hey, could I get your autograph now? It's for .... oh, what the hell, it's for me! I'm your biggest fan!
I don't know.
Who am I thinking of?
I never played a jewel thief.
The one where you're that jewel thief.
Say, aren't you that actor guy?
Oh, I will, and I have many, many friends and associates, my friend. All, by the way, in Overeaters Anonymous. All of them fat and alone like me, all of them dream of being someone else, all of them with John Malkovich as their second choice!
Tell your friends.
Oh, thank you! Thank you! Thousand times, thank you!
Oh, this is just the medical breakthrough I've been waiting for. Are their any side effects? Please say no! Please say no!
Exactly that. We can put you inside someone else's body for fifteen minutes.
When you say, I can be somebody else, what do you mean exactly?
Please, have a seat.
Hello, I'm here about the ad.
Sure. We could really use a farmer. We'd be grateful for the help. Also, I think, you know, if you wouldn't mind too terribly, a little puppet show every once in a while, would do a lot to lift our spirits. You know, if you wouldn't mind too terribly.
I'd like to be a farmer. I want to help things grow, to encourage life. Do you and your friends need a farmer?
I'm through with puppets, Lotte. I just want you to know that.
People make mistakes.
You'll have me, after all I've done to you?
I don't know. There's a small community of us. We have a place they don't know about. We're happy. We'll keep trying to figure out a way. Come stay with us. Join the struggle.
I suppose. But they got here first, the lousy bastards. So now it's all over, I guess.
You saw it once. Now you see it again. That's life, isn't it? And you were up here to try the same thing, weren't you?
And yourself too in the process. God, you're so beautiful. Why couldn't I see that before?
Yeah. I was going to kill him from the inside.
You came up here looking for the portal?
It's okay, Craig. It all worked out, in an odd sort of way.
I'm sorry for everything.
A better friend.
Oh, right. As long as you're happy. I'm sure he's a better lover than I ever was.
He's a lucky man. Do I know him?
I'm in love. For the first time. It's funny, but when it happens to you, there's no question.
I'm so glad you're safe. You look really wonderful.
I love you so much.
You're not a monster, Craig. Just a confused man.
I'm sorry. Oh God, I'm sorry. I'm some kind of monster. I'm the guy you read about in the paper and go, "he's some kind of monster."
I need a shower.
Perhaps you're right. I can't let you go though. Too much has happened. You're my ace in the hole.
Maybe this is what you've always been, Craig, you just never faced it before.
That's true. Oh, God, Lotte, what have I become? My wife in a cage with a monkey. A gun in my hand. Betrayal in my heart.
You didn't do anything about it out of respect for the fact that she wouldn't let you near her with a ten foot pole, which is, by the way, about nine feet, nine inches off the mark anyway.
Yeah but I didn't do anything about it. Out of respect for our marriage.
You fell in love with her first.
Things change. Anyway, you gave up your claim to that love the first time you stuck your dick in Maxine.
Once this was a relationship based on love. Now you have me in a cage with a monkey and a gun to my head.
I'm a puppeteer.
Ah, but you're forgetting one thing, Lambchop.
It'll never happen, fuckface.
It was lovely being you being Malkovich, my dear. I'd never seen the passionate side of sweet Maxine before, or her actual tits for that matter. If only, I've been thinking to myself, if only I could actually feel what Malkovich feels, rather than just see what he sees... And then, dare I say it, if only I could control his arms, his legs, his pelvis, and make them do my bidding.
What the hell, darling. Close early today, live dangerously.
Tell her, what the hell, close early today, live dangerously.
Tell her you need to see her.
Suck my dick!
Yeah, well welcome to the nineties.
I'm your Goddamn wife. Once you vowed to cherish me forever. Now you hold a gun to my head?
I feel that somehow my parents never prepared me to make this particular decision. Not that I blame them. How could they know? Today's world is so complicated. No. I have to go away now. I'm sorry, Lotte. I'm so sorry.
Sometimes we're forced to make hard decisions. I'd like for us to stay together, Craig. You know, platonically, if that's possible. I truly value our friendship.
Life is confusing, isn't it?
I'm sorry. That was nasty.
Well, you have the Maxine action figure to play with.
Don't forget me.
Me and John.
We love her, Craig. I'm sorry.
And he was with her.
You were him last night, weren't you?
What about Maxine?
Us, of course.
I'm giving them up. I've changed. I've found a new focus.
You've always loved the animals.
You've always hated the animals.
No they're not.
I'm getting rid of the animals. I've lost interest. Besides, they're standing between you and me.
I'm getting rid of the fucking animals.
You should feed your animals. They're looking peaked.
Nothing. Don't go, Craig. I've been thinking. Let's try to work this out. We've got so much history.
I'm moving. Remember? What's with the hooded cloak?
What are you doing?
After dinner I'll show you my puppets.
Did you know that Eskimos have not one, but fifty words for snow. It's because they have so much of it.
It'll be okay. I'll fix my lasagna. Well smoke a joint. Tensions will melt away.
I don't know. There's some tension between us. I'd hate to expose you to that.
You're right. You know I was thinking that we should have Maxine over for dinner. Since you two are partners and all. It might be a nice gesture.
You see, men can feel unfulfilled, too. I'm glad you're realizing that. You shouldn't be so quick to assume that switching bodies would be the answer to all your problems.
Oh, you know, not a lot. Just hanging around his apartment. I think he must be a lonely man.
So how was it? What was he doing?
Don't crowd me, Craig.
I have to go back tonight. At eight Exactly.
How was it?
This is absurd. Besides Feldman's an allergist. If you're going to do something, do it right.
Everything felt right for the first time. I need to go back to make sure, then if the feeling is still there. I'm going to speak to Dr. Feldman about sexual reassignment surgery.
What, are you nuts? That's Oprah talking.
I've been going over and over my experience last night. It was amazing. I've decided I'm a transsexual. Isn't that the craziest thing?
Why aren't you at work?
Fuck pets. Is this your partner? I had to come back and do the Malkovich ride again. Fuck everything else. Is this her?
Lotte! Why aren't you at the pet shop?
Tomorrow. We're late for Lester.
I was, wasn't I? I was John fucking Malkovich! Take me back, Craig.
You weren't you. You were John Malkovich.
I have to go back, Craig. Being inside did something to me. All of a sudden everything made sense. I knew who I was.
We'll talk about it in the car.
I have to go back now.
Okay. Maybe tomorrow.
I have to go back.
I'll meet you on the turnpike.
Yeah. We'll do it right now. On the way to Lester's house.
Well, you know we're going to be very busy tomorrow. I'll tell you what. Let's do it tonight. Right now.
I want to be John Malkovich. Tomorrow morning. Plus I'd like to meet this partner of yours.
I want to try.
Brain. soul, I'm telling you, Lotte. I was right inside him looking out. We're going to be rich.
Don't be ridiculous. There is no such thing as a portal into someone else's brain.
All right. I'll be in my workshop for a little while. I'll be in in a little while. I need to unwind a little. I'll be in soon. A little while.
No thanks. I'm going to turn in.
Yeah. You want a beer?
I dressed the wound. Then I've just been feeding everyone, putting everyone to bed.
Tom-Tom's puncture wound is infected.
I'm sorry. How was your evening?
I was worried.
Nah. I'm not hungry. I'm sorry I didn't call. It was just, you know, hard to get away.
Did you eat?
Sorry, I'm so late. Lester just wouldn't let me go. Were supposed to have dinner with him on Friday. I can get us out of it if you want. He's really amazing, this insane old lech. It's actually sort of amusing when you get past just how disgusting it is.
Just an idea I had.
She's very beautiful.
Yeah, just an idea I had.
Some sort of childhood trauma, she thinks. Possible feelings of inadequacy as a chimp. Interesting, huh?
They'll understand. Besides I've got a morning appointment tomorrow with Elijah's shrink. We're getting to the bottom of this acid stomach.
We have to make it an early night.
Adorable. What time are they supposed to be here?
Isn't that cute? I just taught her that.
Why, Craig. why?
I'm a puppeteer.
Why'd you do it, Craig?
Is the trial date set?
Which one is Elijah again?
Would you check in on Elijah? He seems to be a little under the weather this morning.
Craig, everyone can't be Derek Mantini. Well, grub worms are waiting. Do me a favor?
The Great Mantini doesn't need a day job.
Well, you know, maybe something else until this whole puppet thing turns around.
We've been over this. Nobody's looking for a puppeteer in today's wintry economic climate.
Craig, listen, honey, I've been thinking... maybe you'd feel better if you got, you know, a job or something.
Gotta run. Shipment of grub worms coming in first thing.
It's my head, Schwartz, and I'll see you in court!
With all respect, sir, I discovered that portal. Its my livelihood.
This portal is mine and must be sealed up forever. For the love of God.
Really? For most people it's a rather pleasant experience. What exactly did you...
I have been to the dark side. I have seen a world that no man should ever see.
I know. I'm sorry...
That... was... no... simulation.
So how was it?
Let me try!
You? Why I'm sure it would pale in comparison to the actual experience.
Let me try.
Sure, after a fashion.
Mr. Malkovich, my name is Craig Schwartz. I can explain. We operate a little business her that... simulates, for our clientele, the experience of... being you, actually.
Holy shit! He said what I said!
Holy shit! He said what I said!
Holy shit, yes!
Holy shit, yes!
I can't believe it. This is too good to be true.
I'm afraid I... have no idea what you are saying... you bastard!
Floris, you're very nice, but I'm afraid Im in love with somebody else.
Music to my ears! Whatever you said. Speak, speak, speak, my magnificent friend, speak!
I am a trained performer.
You're not like the other boys we've had here. Granted, I can't understand what you're saying either, but your soft palette resonates tremendously well and you never ever constrict your epiglottis.
You suggest what? I have no time for piddling suggestions from mumbling job applicants, my good man. Besides, Dr. Lester will see you now. I think that's what he said.
I said "yes."
Money, Miss Warts?
My name is Schwartz.
I'm sorry, I'm afraid I have no idea what you're saying right now.
Please have a seat, Mr. Juarez...
No, uh, my name is Craig Schwartz. I have an interview with Mr. Lester.
Welcome to LesterCorp. May we meet your filing needs?
I am not alone. There are others. We are legion. You will pay for this blasphemy. You will pay dearly.
There are rules, boy, procedures, etiquette. This is not a toy. I've been waiting seventy years to utilize this room, grooming myself, quietly setting the stage, performing ablutions, paying tribute, seeing all his motion pictures again and again. Worshipping, Schwartz, worshipping properly.
Dr. Lester, I don't know what you're talking about.
You're making a big mistake, Schwartz. Ma'am
The vacant office. I see. Olive oil. Interesting. Be warned, Schwartz, there are certain doors which should never be opened.
Uh, import-export. Olive oil. Right on 7 1/2 actually. In the vacant office. So we'll still be seeing each other.
And what sort of business will this be? If you don't mind my asking.
No sir, not at all. It's just that I'm going to open my own business and...
I see. Are you unhappy at our little company?
No thank you sir. It's delicious, though. I just wanted to thank you for the opportunity to work at LesterCorp, but I'm afraid I'm going to have to tender my resignation effectively immediately.
More beet-spinach juice, my friend?
Thank you, sir.
Ah. yes, the little door. There is a short film on the little door in the orientation room in exactly two minutes. If you hurry, you'll just make it.
Dr. Lester, I have a question. I was in that vacant office down the hall and I stumbled upon a little door and....
Ah, Craig. Just the fellow I wanted to see. Juicer! Easy as pie. Just keep your fingers clear of the blade, and never, never use it while bathing in a tub full of water.
Dr. Lester. . .
That's sounds fine, sir. Gotta run.
Shall we say dinner on Friday. Just the two of us? You can come too if you like, Schwartz.
Wife, huh? I'd love to meet her, Craig.
Dr. Lester, it's been really fascinating, but I'm afraid I have to get home to my wife now.
Imagine a room full of women. Nubile, blonde, wet with desire, Schwartz. A harem, if you will. Me in leather. A harness, if you like. I am the object of this desire, and all eyes are on me as I speak. Ladies, I begin. I am the love god, Eros. I intoxicate you. My spunk is to you manna from heaven...
All right. Meet me at the Juicy-Juice Juice Bar after work today and I'll spill my goddamn guts for you.
Dr. Lester, while I am flattered that you share your feelings with me, I believe perhaps the workplace is not the most suitable environment for this type of discussion.
I don't want to be your godamn link, damn you. I want to feel Floris' naked thighs against my own. I want to know passion. I want my body to inspire lust in that beautiful, complex woman. I want her to shiver in a spasm of ecstasy when I penetrate her. Oh, God, the agony of the flesh, Schwartz.
The elderly have so much to offer, sir. They are our link with history.
No sir-e-bob, I don't die. But what I do is get older, wrinkled like a former plum that's become the wrinkled prune you see before you. Oh, to be a young man again, maybe then Floris would care for me.
I'll keep that in mind, sir.
One hundred and five. Carrot juice. Lot's of it. I swear, it's almost not worth it. I piss orange. Oh, and I, have to piss sitting down... like a godamn girly... every fifteen minutes. But nobody wants to die, Schwartz.
I wasn't toying with her, sir. I was just... How old are you?
Don't toy with Floris, Schwartz. Why, if I were eighty years younger, I'd box your ears.
Low overhead, m'boy. We pass the savings on to you. But seriously, that's all covered in orientation.
Just one. Why is this floor so short?
Thank you for being kind enough to lie. You see, I've been very lonely in my isolated tower of indecipherable speech. You're hired. Any questions?
No. I understand perfectly.
Pity, it tells it like it is. That's why the eastern, read Jewish, publishing establishment won't touch it. That's a quote from the book jacket. George Will, I think. I apologize if you can't understan a word I'm saying, Dr. Schwartz.
Flattery will get you everywhere, my boy. But I'm afraid I have to trust Floris on this one. You see, she has her doctorate in speech impedimentology from Case Western. Perhaps you've read her memoirs, "I can't understand a word any of you are saying."
You don't have a speech impediment, Dr. Lester.
Damn, you are good. I tried to trick you. Okay, put these in order.
Glooph is not a letter, sir.
You think so, eh? Which comes first, L or... Glooph?
Well, sir, I'm an excellent filer.
Tell me, Dr. Schwartz, what do you feel you can bring to LesterCorp?
Not at all, Dr. Lester. I simply misspoke.
She's not my secretary. She's what they call an executive liaison, and I'm not banging her, if that's what youre implying.
No, it's okay, sir. Just a mixup with your secretary.
Actually, my name is Craig Schwartz, Dr. Lester.
Come in, Mr. Juarez. I'd stand, but, well, you know.
J.M. Inc. Be all that someone...
But I gotta go now. I've got to go be Johnny.
How the hell would I know? I wasn't a philosophy major.
What happens when a man climbs through his own portal?
Of course, right this way, Mr. Malkovich. Compliments of the house.
Let him try.
Yes, yes, sweetheart, yes!
Lotte? Is that you?
Lotte, this is so good...
A girl has a right to glow if she wants. It's in the fucking constitution.
You're glowing again.
Do you have any idea what its like to have two people look at you with total lust and devotion through the same pair of eyes? No I don't suppose you would. It's quite a thrill, Craig.
You're evil, Maxine.
You picked the unrequited variety. Very bad for the skin.
I don't think so. I've fallen in love. This is what people who've fallen in love look like.
I've fallen in love.
Are you torturing me on purpose?
So unbolt the fucking door, Einstein.
This is amazing! We're gonna be rich!
Craig, I just don't find you attractive. And, Lotte, I'm smitten with you, but only when you're in Malkovich. When I looked into his eyes last night, I could feel you peering out. Behind the stubble and the too-prominent brow and the male pattern baldness, I sensed your feminine longing peering out, and it just slew me.
Sounds good. Oblique but intriguing. Phone it in.
Okay. Here it is. Ever want to be someone else? Now you can. No kidding. Only two hundred dollars for fifteen minutes. Visit J.M. Inc., Mertin-Flemmer Building. etc., etc.
I'll protect you, Dollface.
Really? But, Maxine, can of worms! End of the world! Illusory nature of existence!
Sure. It'd be fun.
You wanted to be partners with me?
Fine. I'll do it myself. I was going to offer a partnership to you, but this way it's more money for me.
But there's something profound here, Maxine, we can't exploit it.
Exactly. Two hundred dollars a pop.
Tickets to Malkovich?
Good. We'll sell tickets.
Yes, of course. He's a celebrity.
Is this Malkovich fellow appealing?
Lots of things. He's very well respected. That jewel thief movie, for example. The point is that this is a very odd thing, supernatural, for lack of a better word. It raises all sorts of philosophical questions about the nature of self, about the existence of the soul. Am I me? Is Malkovich Malkovich? Was the Buddha right, is duality an illusion? Do you see what a can of worms this portal is? I don't think I can go on living my life as I have lived it. There's only one thing to do. Let's get married right away.
What's he been in?
He's an actor. One of the great American actors of the 20th century.
Sounds delightful. Who the fuck is John Malkovich?
There's a tiny door in that empty office. It's a portal, Maxine. It takes you inside John Malkovich. You see the world through John Malkovich's eyes, then, after about fifteen minutes, you're spit out into a ditch on the side of The New Jersey Turnpike.
It better be.
This is important!
Don't you want to know what happened to me?
You might want to check those tarot cards one more time.
It's just, and I've never done this before, Maxine, but it's just that I feel something for you. I've never felt this before for anyone, not even my wife. My future is with you, Maxine.
Please, let me explain.
Puppets. Maxine. It's the idea of being inside someone else, feeling what they feel, seeing what they see...
You're not someone I could get interested in. Craig. You play with dolls.
Well, I'm a puppeteer...
So, tell me about yourself. If you can get your mind out of the gutter long enough, dog-boy.
Good. Now we're getting somewhere. Not a chance.
No, wait! I like your tits. I love your tits. I want to fuck you.
I mean, I am really attracted to you. Jesus, you are a fag. We can share recipes, if you like, Darlene.
I mean, I am really attracted to you.
You're a fag or a liar.
Im not a homosexual. I just like women for more than their bodies. I guess you could say I'm the new American male.
Dont let the girly shit fool you. It'd blow your shorts off.
That's the usual?
Christ, you're not a fag are you? Because I don't want to be wasting my time.
No, no, it's your energy or your attitude or the way you carry yourself or...
I like you. I don't know what it is exactly.
I'll have, like, a beer. Like a Budweiser, or something.
The usual, Barry.
What'll you have?
Yeah. But enough about me.
Buy you a drink, Maxine?
Made it. Maxine. Maxine, Maxine, Maxine.
I am dubious, but I don't welsh. Meet me at The Stuck Pig. Seven o'clock. You're late, I walk. So help me, if I find out you cheated.
Oh, Maxine, nobody told me. Maxine, Maxine. It just came out of me like a song, Maxine. A beautiful crazy, song, Maxine. Maxine. Maxine!
Somebody told you.
That's incredible! Nobody told me! I swear! It's kismet. Maxine! It's a beautiful name. There's a psychic connection. Don't you see? It was meant to be! Maxine! Maxine! Maxine! I will shout it from the rooftops!
Who told you?
Who told you?
How about this, if I can guess your first name within three tries, you have to come out for a drink with me tonight.
I just wanted to say hi. Did you know I still don't know your name or where you work?
You know, if you ever got me, you wouldn't have a clue what to do with me. That's the thing, Romeo.
And fifty other lines to get into a girl's pants.
You know, I've been thinking about what you said yesterday, about the orientation film being a cover-up. I think you're on to something.
I wouldn't know.
How dreary - to be - Somebody / How public - like a Frog / To tell one's name - the livelong June / To an admiring Bog!
Listen. I'm Craig Schwartz, just starting out at LesterCorp.
Well, truth is for suckers, isn't it?.
Is that true?
Yes. Unfortunately it's bullshit. The real story of 7 1/2 is so evil that it could never be revealed to Americans raised on sitcoms and happy news anchors.
That's right, Wendy, it is against floor policy, but as long as you're here, let me tell you what I know about our cute little door friend. Many years ago, this very office was occupied by a kindly old watchmaker named Mr. White.
Well, Don, I peeked in here, even though I know it's against floor policy. and I discovered that there's a little tiny door in here. Isn't it cute? It's almost like a little dolly's door. I wonder what its for.
Hi. Wendy! What're you up to in this vacant office.
Ha ha ha!
So that's the story of 7 1/2. Since the rents are considerably lower this floor has been adopted by businesses which for one reason or another are forced to cut corners After all... the overhead is low! Ha ha ha!
It's an interesting story, Wendy. Many years ago in the late 1800's, James Mertin, an Irish ship captain looking to invest in the future of our great country, came to this town and decided to erect an office building.
Don, I was wondering, do you know why our workplace has such low ceilings?
Wings and a halo, my darling. Wings and a halo.
I'll be with you always, my friends. Who knows, maybe if I'm lucky, I'll rejoin you with wings and a beak.
If there was any way I could go in your place. But I'm only a monkey and...
Yes. I'm the only one. I have to enter Malkovich and destroy him from the inside. If not me, who?
Must you take this terrible demon on yourself, my love?
It is better to light one candle than curse the darkness. I learned that from you.
I'm glad you learned sign language, Elijah, but I'm tired of your nagging. I'm tired of this conversation. I'm tired period. What has the world ever done for me that I should feel personally responsible for saving it?
You've got to tell Craig what's going on. He must never leave Malkovich.
Yes. Yes. A thousand times, yes!
Two hundred dollars, please.
Well that's perfect. My second choice. Ah, this is wonderful. Too good to be true! You see, I'm a sad man. Sad and fat and alone. Oh, I've tried all the diets, my friends. Lived for a year on nothing but imitation mayonnaise. Did it work? You be the judge. But Malkovich! King of New York! Man about town! Most eligible bachelor! Bon Vivant! The Schopenhauer of the 20th century! Thin man extraordinaire!
You can be John Malkovich.
Can I be anyone I want?
No. Don't be an ass.
Long term psychic or physiological repercussions?
Fine. Your mail's on the kitchen table. Mostly junk. Oh, there's a letter from Alex Trebek.
Fine. I'm not mad. Let's just drop it.
Fine. I mean, it's not like I was doubting you, it's just that I know puppetry is a skill that takes a long time to acquire.
Fine. Let's drop it.
I was just asking. No disrespect intended.
I am the Devil, Lester. I think I can handle it.
Can you do that? I mean, do you know anything about puppetry?
Well, if Mantini wins, Schwartz will leave Malkovich, right? So, if he needs it, I help Mantini's performance a bit, give him an edge. Spice up the show.
I missed you. I'm sorry. Tell me the plan.
Why are you being like this?
Do tell. I love a good plan.
But I think I have another plan.
Oh, he's good! Great, actually. I saw him do "Tru" with his sixty foot Robert Morse puppet. Sensational.
No, the Mediocre Mantini. Of course the Great Mantini!
The Great Mantini?
Maxine says she'll leave him if he leaves Malkovich, plus he's been challenged to a puppet-duel by Mantini.
What kind of circumstances?
No, for God's sake, I just watered it yesterday. It almost went well. I gave a pretty good dream, but circumstances arose.
How'd it go? Did you say the philodendron gets water or no?
I like that.
No, a sexy dream. Of course, a scary dream.
A scary dream?
I suppose I could come to him in a dream. I don't know. That's the best I can think of right now.
Very talented son of a bitch. Too bad we can't kill him.
Impressions? Those are hard.
The kid's got talent. You've never seen Malkovich like this. Schwartz had him up there singing and dancing. Impressions.
Vegas? What'd you think?
We saw his show at the Luxor last night.
Have a seat. I wracking my brain over this Malkovich thing.
Look, I'm going back to my house to ponder this. So stay calm and keep track of Schwartz's comings and goings. Oh, and somebody dispose of Schwartz's wife, will you? Nice to meet you all.
Didn't mean to imply that you were, sir.
Right, Lester. I heard you the first time. I'm not a dummy.
And as I said, sir, we can't very well exert physical persuasion upon the sacred vessel Malkovich.
Boy, this is a toughie. To be honest, I didn't anticipate this.
Good morning, Lotte!
Think, Jew florist?
Thank you, Floris.
Someone names A Lot of Warts on line two.
Yes, my dear?
Fine woman, Floris. I don't know how she puts up with this damn speech impediment of mine.
Fork ah did?
Gehginnis ondah foam?
Floris, get Guinness on the phone.
Says me. Do you dream often?
It's my job to ask the questions. Yours to answer them.
Do you dream often?
The truth is for suckers, Johnny-Boy.
I gotta know the truth, Kevin.
All the better. Hey, Hot Lesbian Witches, next Geraldo, buddy boy. Ha ha ha.
I don't know anything about her. What if she's some sort of witch or something?
You're crazy to let go of a chick who calls you Lotte. I tell you that as a friend.
I'm done with her now. Tonight really creeped me out.
Ouch. Now that's hot. She's using you to channel some dead lesbian lover. Let me know when you're done with her. This is my type of chick.
I think it might've been this Lotte woman talking through me. Maxine likes to call me Lotte.
You were stoned. Case closed. End of story. How hot is this babe?
Yes, but you see, someone else was talking through my mouth.
Yeah yeah yeah. Yadda yadda yadda. Were you stoned?
Kevin, I'm telling you... it was like nothing I've...
I'm sure you're not going crazy.
It's like nothing I've ever felt before. I think I'm going crazy.
Good. I think its time to beckon Mr. Flemmer. Perhaps He can help us out of this pickle.
Count me in.
But of course.
Do we get to wear a crown?
Lots of carrot juice, little lady. That, and a deal with the Devil.
You don't look a day over one hundred and five, Captain. What's your secret?
I'm afraid that no physical harm must come to him as long as he inhabits the vessel.
That bastard! I'll gladly dispose of him in the name of the order, Son of Malkovich.
I'm not certain, my dear, but I believe your husband has somehow psychically diverted the route.
Why not? I need to get in there!
Thank you all for your efforts, but I'm afraid we can no longer get into Malkovich through the portal.
I understand, but we must protect the vessel at all costs. Please, Craig, please step aside and allow us to have what is rightfully ours.
It's Craig in there, I can tell.
No! Don't harm the vessel!
Aaaahhhh, the portal!
Oh, sorry. Right this way.
Oh, didn't anyone show you the indoctrination video?
No, I didn't know that.
What?! That is not allowed. My God, you are supposed to be one of us. You know you must never partake of Malkovich by yourself!
No, you don't understand. I've been inside Malkovich when I'm with Maxine...
Hmmm, a lesbian, are you? I must inform you that I find that highly arousing.
Craig stole Maxine from me, Dr. Lester.
You know I think it pays to leave juice-making to the trained professionals. You look terrible, my dear.
My child, I don't think its a great mystery what Craig's up to.
But now we've lost access to Craig.
You followed your heart, my child, and that is not necessarily a bad thing.
I blew it, Dr. Lester.
We need you on the inside, my child. To report on his comings and goings, and if need be, to... destroy him... ...for lack of a better word.
But why, Son of Malkovich?
No you mustn't, my child.
I'm getting divorced.
With immense pleasure, my dear. Down that hall, ninth door on the left. Watch the step down. It's sunken, you know.
Dr. Lester, would you point me toward the restroom?
Oh, be still my heart.
Yes, of course, Dr. Lester.
Tell me, Lotte, can you understand a word I'm saying?
I thought so too, doll. I guess we were mistaken.
But Maxine, I thought it was me you loved.
Really? Well, you know, he's quite good. I'm surprised. Anyway, I have a session with Malkovich I have to attend. I'll speak with you soon.
Maxine! Listen: It hasn't been me in John the last three times. Craig's had me locked up in the apartment. He made me call you at gunpoint. It's been him! Oh, God, it's been him!
We have to meet.
Sweetie! Oh, but we can't. It's business hours. I need to keep the membranous tunnel open for paying customers.
I have to see you.
J.M. Inc. Be all that someone else can be.
I love you, Lotte.
Oh my darling. Oh my sweetheart.
Give me one hour to get inside him Exactly.
I have to see you. Can you call him and invite us over?
After that I'll introduce you to my favorite monkey, Elijah. He's got an ulcer, due to a suppressed childhood trauma. But we're getting to the bottom of it. Psychotherapy.
I've never been looked at like this by a woman.
And the funny thing is. Mr. Malkovich, my voice is probably the least intriguing thing about me.
Let her go, Craig. I mean him."
Don't stand in the way of my actualization as a man, Craig.
Hi, uh. Hi. I wanted to place an ad. Yes. "Ever want to be someone else?" No, that's the ad, but let's talk about you in a minute. "Ever want to be someone else? Now you can. No kidding..."
Hi. Have you done Malkovich yet?
Yes, hello, I wanted to place an ad. Hi, are you Craig's wife?
Who needs dancing?
Is there dancing?
I'm not afraid. I toured for a year with the National Puppet Company's production of "Long Day's Journey Into Night."
Nothing but acting to hide behind, buddy-boy.
Sounds boring. Are there any songs?
Broadway's finest three hours. It's about the suppression of the individual. Conformity as God in modern society.
Never heard of it.
Say... "Equus"? It's got everything.
What's the play?
A friendly competition, if you will. Your Malkovich puppet and my Harry S. Truman puppet appear opposite each other in a play. Not some Vegas Burly-Q pyrotechnics, but a real play that requires actual acting. The audience decides who is more deserving of the title. The losing puppeteer bows out graciously. Goes back to obscurity as a file clerk.
How do we do that?
We'll see, Schwartz. We'll see.
She's not available.
Because if you missed any, I just happen to have copies here you can take with you when you leave now.
Yeah, I saw them
Did you see the reviews?
Hello, Schwartz. I saw your show.
Perhaps you'll want to consult that Ouija board again.
Honey, we can be happy and poor together.
I just had the most horrifying nightmare. The devil was in it.
You've got to be kidding.
I've got to leave Malkovich.
Bad dream, darling?
Busy day, my little fire chief. Why don't you climb into bed, and I'll meet you there in just...
Oh, darling. It's a dream come true. We're going to ride this straight to the top.
They love me, darling! "Craig Schwartz is fantastic!" The New York Times. "If only Craig Schwartz had always been inside Malkovich!" Women's Wear Daily. "Craig Schwartz - The world's greatest puppeteer!" Paul Wunder, WBAI Radio.
He's a selfish bastard.
Doesn't he know how important tonight is to us?
I'm nervous. Malkovich is fighting me hard today.
This is it, lover. You're stepping onto that stage a nobody and presto-change-o, you're coming back the greatest puppeteer the world has ever seen.
Vegas. Can you arrange that?
It's okay, my sweet.
Shut up! Sorry, dear, I lost control for a minute.
Oh, Craiggy, that's brilliant!
Wait a minute! What if everybody knew? What if we presented Malkovich as the world's most complicated puppet and me as the only puppeteer sophisticated enough to work him? We'd wipe the floor with the Great Mantini!
No one would ever have to know its not him.
No! Please! Shut up, will you? We're trying to think here. It is sort of like being a puppeteer. I like that about it.
Well, we'll have all the money in Malkovich's bank account, plus he still gets acting work occasionally.
No! But how will we make a living, my love, if our clientele doesn't have access to our product?
Stay in him forever?
You're right, my darling, it's so much more. It's playing with people!
You see, Maxine, it isn't just playing with dolls.
That was incredible. You're brilliant!
Really? Yeah. Okay.
I'd love to see your work.
You mean with Malkovich?
Wow. Do a puppet show for me, Craig honey.
Yeah. I've figured out how to hold on as long as I want. Oddly enough, it's all in the wrists.
You still there, sweets?
No... damn... you... Oh shut up, you overrated sack of shit.
I'll say you are. Let's do it on his kitchen table, then make him eat an omelette off of it.
I'm getting better all the time.
Apparently you can control this Malkovich fellow now.
Oh, so the bitch escaped.
Lotte called me.
Yes. How did you know it was me?
Oh shut up. Craig, darling are you in there?
Don't con me, Maxine. We're over. I just let you up here to tell you that, and to tell you that I'm taking you and Schwartz to court.
I can explain about the portal, darling.
Come on in.
What the fuck is going on?
No, Dollface, I know what my passion taking hold feels like. I gotta go.
Oh, Dollface, it was just your passion for me taking hold.
Something was making me talk. Some Goddamn thing was making me move. I gotta get out of here.
Yes, yes, sweetheart, yes! What the fuck is going on? I'm not talking. This is not me!
Yes, Maxine, yes.
Oh, my sweet, beautiful Lotte.
No, I guess not. I'm an actor.
Do you mind?
I'm sorry, did you just call me "Lotte"?
Oh sure. It's very rewarding...
So, do you enjoy being an actor?
Oh, I'm really glad you called.
Thanks so much for coming over.
Whatever you're having.
Can I get you a drink?
It's just that I fantasize about you and, well, speaking to you now has gotten me sort of excited and...
How'd you get this number?
You don't know me, but I'm a great admirer of yours.
Captain Mertin, surely I am a God-fearing Christian woman like yourself, but alas, I am afraid that the world was not built with me in mind. Door knobs are too high, chairs are unwieldy, high-ceilinged rooms mock my stature. Nor am I a marrie lady, Captain. after all, who would marry a person of my diminutiveness? So I am forced to work for my few pennies a week as an optometrist. Why cannot there be a place for me to work safe and comfortable?
Aye. Speak then if ye must.
I am not asking for alms, but rather the ear of a kind man with a noble heart.
I see. Well, it is not my fault that thou art tiny. So if it is charity yer after, then be gone with ye, ye foul demon.
I am not a child, Captain Mertin, but rather an adult lady of miniature proportions.
What want ye, girl child?
Know it, and go on out the yard. Go on.
Then what do I do?
But you said...you said out there, there ain't no...what was that word?..no..de- fense. No de-fense.
You got to go sometime. You got to go out there by yourself sometime.
There was a boy there...said mama was a jailbird...said he could prove it..
Why you never go back to Lady Jone's and learn your letters? You liked going there I remember. Seeing the other children. Then all a sudden, you stop.
No. I'm looking for what I was put here to look for: the back door.
We have to be steady. "These things too will pass". What you looking for? A miracle?
What I know is what I see: a nigger woman hauling shoes.
You still know.
Was a time I knew what was.
You can't do that, Baby. It ain't right.
Not like He punished me.
You punishing Him, ain't you?
I'm saying they came into my yard.
You saying God give up? Nothing left for us but pour out our own blood?
I'm saying they came into my yard.
You saying nothing counts?
Those white things have taken all I had or dreamed. I'm saying ain't no bad luck in this world 'cept for white folks..They just don't know when to stop.
You saying whitefolks won. That what you saying?
No, Stamp. I ain't.
You blaming God. That what you're doing?
Can't say. It's something can't be planned.
Then what? When you get through with blue and yellow, then what?
I likes yellow.
You getting into bed to think about yellow?
Blue. That doesn't hurt nobody. Yellow neither.
What world are you talking about? Ain't nothing harmless down here.
What I have to do is get in my bed and lay down. I want to fix on something harmless in this world.
But you got to do it. You got to. Can't nobody Call like you. You have to be there.
That's the last thing they took from me.
The Word. What you was put here to speak.
Say the Word!
If I call them, and they come what on earth am I going to say to them.
This Saturday - you coming to Call or what?
Yonder. Twin chestnuts in the yard.
I got a delivery around here. Name of Tucker.
Here, let me carry that.
Folks come. Folks go.
..."Here. Look here. See this mark? If you can't tell me by my face, look here."
...All I remember is how she loved the bottom of burned bread. Her little hands...I wouldn't know 'em if they slapped me".
Those boys didn't even know him. You had six whole years of marriage to my Halle Fathered every one of your children. A blessing. I learned hard that a man's just a man, but a son like that...like Halle..now that's somebody.
The boys wouldn't have left if Halle were here.
Oh, I remember bits and pieces of all of'em I guess..Halle, of course..I had Halle a lifetime. Almost twenty years... My two girls, sold and gone before I could even a heard about it, and them without their grown up teeth yet. My third child, my son after Halle...I let that straw boss have me for four months so's I could keep that boy. Next year, he had him traded for lumber anyway and me pregnant with his child. I couldn't love that child. I wouldn't. Not any of the rest either. God take what He would....and He did...
You remember Halle.
What'd be the point? Not a house in the country ain't packed to the rafters with some dead Negro's grief. We lucky our ghost is a baby. My husband spirit come back? Or yours? Don't talk to me! Ha..You lucky. You got one child left, still pullin at your skirts. Be thankful. I had eight. Eight with six fathers. Every one of them gone from me. Four taken, four chased and all, I expect, worrying somebody's house into evil. My first born - alls I can remember of her now is how she loved the burned bottom of bread. Her little hands..I wouldn't know'em if they slapped me. Can you beat that? Eight children and that's all I remember.
I don't know. Maybe we should have moved.
They'll be all right. I'm surprised they lasted here this long.
Ah, winter in Ohio is especially rough if you've got an appetite for color.
You best leave that quilt alone. That was grandma's quilt.
What do you know about it? I sleep where I want.
WHERE ARE THE MEN WITHOUT SKIN?
WATCH OUT FOR HER; SHE CAN GIVE YOU DREAMS.
I WILL PROTECT YOU.
YOU HURT ME.
and she is mine...
Beloved..She's mine I am Beloved
..I swallowed her blood right along with my mother's milk. She played with me and always came to be with me whenever I needed her. Me and her waited for our daddy. I love her. I do. She never hurt me. I love my mother but I know she killed one of her own, and tender as she is with me, I'm scared of her because of it. All the time, I'm afraid the thing that happened that made it all right to kill her own, could happen again. Whatever it is, it comes from outside this house, outside the yard. So I never leave this house and I watch over the yard so it can't happen again ... I have to keep it away from my sister...I'll protect Beloved...'Cause She's mine...
No. Since mama lost her job, we don't have no more pies..
Not for me, you don't! You don't let me eat the pies...
We don't have nothing sweet no more, baby.
I want somethin' sweet.
That's not true. I told you, I had to get you out, make you safe...so's you and me could be together on the other side, forever..
You're weren't nice to me..you didn't smile at me..
Mama told you - I'd give up my own life, every minute, every hour of it to take back one of your tears baby...My children my best thing. You my best thing!
You gave me the bad dreams. You left me behind...
Don't say those things. You forget about those dreams..
I had another dream last night. The dead man laying on top of me and I had nothing to eat. And the ghosts without skin stuck their fingers in me and said Beloved in the dark and bitch in the light..
Don't talk like that. Your mama loves you.
You don't sit with me!! I don't sit with people who leave me!
Baby, don't be like that.
You don't sit with me!!
NO. THEY TRIED ONCE BUT I STOPPED THEM. THEY WON'T EVER COME BACK...YOU MY BEST THING.
CAN THEY GET IN HERE?
I WILL NEVER LEAVE YOU AGAIN.
WHY DID YOU LEAVE ME WHO AM YOU?
WILL YOU STAY?
YOUR FACE IS MINE.
YOU NEVER FORGOT ME?
YOU CAME BACK BECAUSE OF ME?
YES. I WAS ON THE OTHER SIDE.
DID YOU COME FROM THE OTHER SIDE.
And Paul D...you don't have to stay 'way, but be careful how you talk to my mama, hear?
Well, good luck with the job.
I don't. I have my own.
Well, if you want my opinion...
At times. At other times I think she was...more. But who would know that better than you. I mean, you sure 'nough you her.
You think she sure 'nough your sister?
Haven't seen her since that day. Ella thinks she might be waiting in the woods for another chance but..I don't think so. Mama thinks she's gone for good. Says she can feel it.
She gone like they say?
That girl...You know, Beloved...
I don't know. I think I've lost my mother, Paul D.
You think I should stop by? Think she'd welcome it?
No. Not a bit all right. Hasn't gotten out of bed since that day.
Your mother all right?
More than all right. Miss Bodwin, she teach me stuff..Book stuff. She says I might go to Oberlin. She's experimenting on me.
They treating you right over at the Bodwins?
No. Got me an afternoon job at the shirt factory. Figure between that and my night work at the Bodwins I might be able to put something away for me and mama.
You on your way home?
Don't pay to complain.
Well, is it now? How you getting along?
Oh yeah. They good. Can't say they ain't good. I wouldn't trade them for another pair, tell you that. But you come back in a few days - give me a chance to lead'em to it. All right?
They good whitefolks?
In case the house burn down or bad weather slops the roads so bad I can't get here on time or late guests needed cleaning up after. Anything. Don't ask me what whitefolks need at night.
In case of what?
Be here. In case.
Fine. But what would I do at night?
They getting older now and I can't take care of 'em like I used to. More and more they keep asking me to sleep over night. Now, I don't want to quit these people but they can't have all my days and nights too. I got my own family needs me. It'll take some convincing but maybe you could come after supper - take care of your mama during the day, then earn a little something at night, how's that?
Bet you do. Everybody miss her. That was a good woman...Well, I don't know whether the Bodwins think it or not but they sure could use some extra help.
I miss her.
I never went to those woodland services but she was always nice to me. Always. Never be another like her.
You know what? I've been here since I was fourteen and I remember like yesterday when Baby Suggs, holy, came here and sat right where you are. Whiteman name of Garner brought her. He and Mr. Bodwin were good friends. That's how she got that house you all live in. Other things too.
Well, come on in. You letting in flies.
I heard your mother took sick, that so?
You Baby Sugg's kin, ain't you?
I'm looking for work. I was thinking they might know of some.
What you want'em for?
Miss Bodwin. They brother and sister, darlin.
I want to see Mr. and Mrs. Bodwin.
What you want?
May I come in?
No..No that won't do...
Oh baby...I don't know anyone could pay anybody anything for work they did themselves...But if you all need to eat until your mother's well, all you have to do is say so...We have a church committee invented so nobody had to go hungry.
Food. My mama, she doesn't feel well. I couldn't stay away from her too long, cause of her condition but I could do chores in the mornings.
I can't do anything but I would learn it for you if you have a little extra.
Well, what can you do?
No. I mean work work.
Work? Start learnin your letters again?
I want to work, Miss Lady.
But you'll hurt your eyes doin it there. Come sit at the table.
She likes this dress...
Mama...Mama she's asleep. Why don't you eat something.
Nobody..no sir..that's right..nobody's going be doing that..nobody going be writing my daughter's characteristics on the animal side..no sir..I don't care..ain't laying that down..no sir. I refuse..that's right..that's right...
NO!...She wanted me to do it.
Mama let me help you.
Go upstairs I said!!
Hold back Denver - I'm fine..You..you go on upstairs. I'll do the cleaning up.
DADDY IS COMING FOR US.
OUT THERE. WAY OFF.
DO YOU FORGIVE ME?
DON'T LOVE HER TOO MUCH.
Don't matter. First time I'll be late in nine years. No great trouble..Whatever goes on out there goes on with or without me showing up on time... don't matter... The world is in this room, baby. This is all there is and all there needs to be.
Won't you be late for work?
I'll make sure she does. But first I'm going make up a nice, big breakfast against that cold outside.
She likes to see you off in the morning.
No, let her rest.
Should I wake her?
That was fun.
Could be that fall you took.
OOh, yeah...Don't know if it's the floor or the skating.
You know as well as I do, Stamp, that people who die bad don't stay in the ground.
You mind loaded with spirits. Everywhere you look you see one.
Well, Paul D. must know who she is. Or what she is.
But you didn't come here talking 'bout Paul. You came asking about a new girl.
And he left when he found out what Sethe did? What you say casts a different light on it, I guess...I thought-
Sure he knew her. Her boy Halle, too.
He knew Baby Suggs?
He didn't know nothing. And nobody. Except her, from when they was at that place Baby Suggs was at.
You didn't tell me that. I thought he already knew.
I told him...Showed him the newspaper. About Sethe. Read it to him. He left that very day.
I run him off.
What run him off? Tell me that!
What's any of that got to do with Paul D.?
I ain't got no friends take a handsaw to their own children.
Till she showed herself.
You was friends.
Anything white floating around in the woods - if it don't got a shotgun, it's something the Lord tells me I don't want no part of.
Aw, no, Ella.
I ain't sure I know that. Baby never laid eyes on her till she showed up here. And how'd she make it and her husband didn't? And where is he? And how she have that baby in the woods by herself? Said a whitewoman help her. Shoot. You believe that? Well, I know what kind of white that was.
You know she married Baby Suggs' boy.
Well, who can tell what went on in there? I never even knew who Sethe was or none of her people.
Girl, give it up! We been friends too long to act like this.
Hold on! Don't jump if you can't see bottom!
Sethe. He took up with her and stayed in there and you don't want nothing to-
It's her, ain't it?
Stamp, don't tear me up this morning! I don't feel like it.
You know he's colored? What else there to know?
I don't know him that well.
Why's that necessary all of a sudden?
He ask, I give him anything.
NO! Shouldn't be no days! You know all about it and don't give him a hand? That don't sound like you, Ella. Me and you been pulling colored folk out the water more'n twenty years! Now you tell me you can't offer a man a bed?! A working man who can pay his own way?
Unrile yourself, Stamp. It's only a few days he been there.
Why? Why he have to ask? Can't nobody offer? What's going on? Since when a black man come to town have to sleep in the cellar like a dog?!
Can't nobody read minds long distance. All he have to do is ask somebody.
It's cold as charity in there! What he do that for? Any number'll take him in.
Yeah. Asked Rev. Pike if he could stay in the cellar.
He's sleeping in the church.
Can't locate him.
Better ask Paul D.
Might see anything at all at 124.
I know what I see.
I know Denver.
Ain't no new Negroes in this town I don't know about. What she look like? You sure that wasn't Denver?
Somebody new there. A woman. Thought you might know who she is.
That's Baby's kin. I don't need no invite to look after her people.
What you want there? Somebody invite you in?
Was over to Baby Suggs.
Oh I been out.
Where you been keeping yourself? I told John must be cold if Stamp stay inside.
All he can. All he can.
Tell me something, Stamp. Tell me this one thing. How much is a nigger supposed to take?
She what run you off? Not what I told you 'bout Sethe?
Don't know. Just shot up one day from a stump.
Who is she? Where she come from?
She scares me. I scare me. And that girl in her house scares me.
You ain't scared of Sethe. I don't believe you.
Stamp, leave off I said! I knew her when she was a girl. She scares me and I knew her when she was a girl...
She was only-
She ain't crazy. She love those children. She was trying to outhurt the hurter's all.
You don't know what I think.
It ain't what you think.
What yard? When who-
I was there Paul D...There in the yard. When she did it.
I don't want to know.
I said I had two things to say to you. I only told you one. I have to tell you the other.
There was a rooster named Mister down at Sweet Home. Last time I saw Halle, with that butter all over his face and me with an iron bit in my mouth, I saw Mister - sitting on a tub. He loved that tub. Like king on a throne. He was a hateful thing. Bloody and evil..But he was better than me. Mister was allowed to be and stay what he was. Even if you cooked him you'd be cooking a rooster named Mister. But wasn't no way I'd ever be Paul D. again..Schoolteacher changed me. Was never no beating under Mr. Garner. Schoolteacher changed that. Why wouldn't a man run from that? Why wouldn't a man not work, kill, starve, pull out his own heart to stop feeling 'stead of feeling that? And it strikes me, it's got to be cause we were something else. And that something was less than a chicken sitting in the sun on a tub.
I don't believe that. I won't.
They'll know. They'll know as soon as they born. Cause it's inside us,Stamp. It'll be inside them. We'll pass it down. Schoolteacher didn't just change the outside, he changed the mind..and the blood..and what it carries...and what it's worth..
Children ain't gonna need to know that kind of thing.
Oh but we got to. How we gonna know our price in the future? How are children's children's children gonna know what they cost? Who's gonna tell them? What are they gonna pay for us, if we free?
No use thinking these things now.
I did. Down to the cent.$900. Always wondered though what Mrs. Garner got for my brother Paul F. Must of been more than nine hundred dollars cause she use that money for Sweet Home for almost two years. But then they hung my other brother Paul A. up on a tree so I guess he wasn't worth the same..I wonder what was Baby Suggs worth? And Halle? I wasn't surprised when I found out they tracked down Sethe all the way to Cincinatti. Her price must have been higher than all of us - her being property that reproduced itself without cost. A breeder.
Never found out.
You remember your price, Stamp?
Oh yeah. I got big plans.
You planning to do anything about it?
Oh yeah. Oh that's load off. I thought everybody gone crazy.
Well I...I did get offered one place but I just wanted to be off by myself a spell.
You pick any house, any house where colored live. Pick any one and you welcome to stay there. I'm apologizing 'cause they didn't offer to tell you. But you welcome anywhere you want to be. My house. John and Ella. Miss Lady Jones..anybody. You choose. You ain't got to sleep in no cellar and I apologize for each and every night.
I come looking for you to ask your pardon. Apologize.
If it's hard for you, might kill me dead.
This is hard for me. But I got to do it. Two things I got to say to you. I'm a take the easy one first.
She was my best thing.
Aw, girl. Don't cry...Me and you, we got more yesterday than anybody. We need some kind of tomorrow...
She left me. She's gone again.
Look - Denver be here in the day. I be here in the night. I'm a take care of you, you hear? Starting now.
Oh, I don't have no plans. No plans at all.
Don't you die on me!! This is Baby Suggs quilt. Is that what you planning!?
I'm tired, Paul. So tired. I have to rest a while.
You got to get up from here, girl.
She comes in the daytime. She still with me, my Denver.
Devil's confusion. What's this I hear about you not getting out of bed? I saw Denver. She tell you?
No, You looking good.
Yeah. Look bad?
Yeah. Too sweet.
Make it the way I always do.
Not too sweet! You make it too sweet they don't eat it.
I'm telling you don't say nothing to me.
What? What? You talking back to me?
Don't talk to me, Mr. Sawyer. Don't say nothing to me this morning.
What the hell you thinking, girl? Strolling in here this late?
Yes sir..You right about that. That's just what I come over to talk to him about. Just that..
Look here..There's a cross up there, so I guess this here's a church or used to be. Seems to me like you ought to show it some respect, you follow me?
No sir, I don't, but I know Plank Road. 'Bout a mile up thataway.
You don't know her? Judy? Works in the slaughterhouse.
Plank Road. Yes sir. That's up a ways. Mile, maybe.
I'm looking for a gal name of Judy. Works over by the slaughterhouse. Said she lived on Plank Road.
Just, uh, just slip the rent under my door.
Yeah, yeah I know. Okay.
Dude, uh, tomorrow is already the tenth.
Sure Allan, I'll be there.
Dude, I finally got the venue I wanted. I'm Performing my dance quintet--you know, my cycle--at Crane Jackson's Fountain Street Theatre on Tuesday night, and I'd love it if you came and gave me notes.
You're not dealing with morons here.
Yeah. Jackie Treehorn wants to talk to the deadbeat Lebowski.
And we know which Lebowski you are, Lebowski.
Pin your diapers on, Lebowski. Jackie Treehorn wants to see you.
He looks like a fuckin' loser.
What do you think?
Wasn't this guy supposed to be a millionaire?
But I guess she told Dieter.
Visiting friends of hers in Palm Springs. Just picked up and left, never bothered to tell us.
Where'd she been?
Well, okay, you're not privy to all the new shit, so uh, you know, but that's what you pay me for. Speaking of which, would it be possible for me to get my twenty grand in cash? I gotta check this with my accountant of course, but my concern is that, you know, it could bump me into a higher tax--
That had not occurred to us, Dude.
No, man, nothing is fucked here--
This is our concern, Dude.
Her life is in your hands, Dude. And report back to us as soon as it's done.
Mr. Lebowski asked me to repeat that: Her life is in your hands.
Oh, man, don't say that..
Her life is in your hands.
Here's the money, and the phone. Please, Dude, follow whatever instructions they give.
Oh, nothin', you know.
They called about eighty minutes ago. They want you to take the money and drive north on the 4 5. They'll call you on the portable phone with instructions in about forty minutes. One person only or I'd go with you. They were very clear on that: one person only. What happened to your jaw?
Well Dude, we just don't know.
So he thinks it's the carpet-pissers, huh?
He suspects that the culprits might be the very people who, uh, soiled your rug, and you're in a unique position to confirm or, uh, disconfirm that suspicion.
Why me, man?
Mr. Lebowski is prepared to make a generous offer to you to act as courier once we get instructions for the money.
We've had some terrible news. Mr. Lebowski is in seclusion in the West Wing.
Yeah sure, if I'm ever in the neighborhood, need to use the john.
Well, enjoy, and perhaps we'll see you again some time, Dude.
It's the LeBaron.
Manolo will load it into your car for you, uh, Dude.
Mr. Treehorn draws a lot of water in this town, Lebowski. You don't draw shit. We got a nice quiet beach community here, and I aim to keep it nice and quiet. So let me make something plain. I don't like you sucking around bothering our citizens, Lebowski. I don't like your jerk- off name, I don't like your jerk-off face, I don't like your jerk- off behavior, and I don't like you, jerk- off --do I make myself clear?
That guy treats women like objects, man.
Mr. Treehorn tells us that he had to eject you from his garden party, that you were drunk and abusive.
What are you, some kind of sad-assed refugee from the fucking sixties?
I want a fucking lawyer, man. I want Bill Kunstler.
You don't know shit, Lebowski.
I know my rights.
Well maybe you and me could pool our resources--trade information-- professional courtesy--compeers, you know--
Yeah, it sucks.
Fuck, man! That's terrible!
Crazy, huh? Ran away a year ago.
Jesus fucking Christ.
The Gundersons. It's a wandering daughter job. Bunny Lebowski, man. Her real name is Fawn Gunderson. Her parents want her back.
The? Who the fff--
Who're you working for? Lebowski? Jackie Treehorn?
Hey, man, I'm not--
She's not my special lady, she's my fucking lady friend. I'm just helping her conceive, man!
Hey hey, I'm not messing with your special lady--
I'm not a--ah, fuck it, just stay away from my fucking lady friend, man.
A dick, man! And let me tell you something: I dig your work. Playing one side against the other--in bed with everybody--fabulous stuff, man.
Show me what you got. Nihilist. Dipshit with a nine-toed woman.
I FUCK YOU! I FUCK YOU!
Come and get it. Fucking nihilist.
VEE FUCK YOU UP, MAN!
Come and get it.
VEE FUCK YOU UP, MAN! VEE TAKE YOUR MONEY!
Okay. Vee take ze money you haf on you und vee call it eefen.
NO RULES! YOU CABBAGE-EATING SONS- OF- BITCHES--
Zere ARE no ROOLZ!
There's no ransom if you don't have a fucking hostage. That's what ransom is. Those are the fucking rules.
That is our most modestly priced receptacle.
Hey man, don't you have something else you could put it in?
Sir, please lower your voice--
Sir, this is a mortuary, not a rental house.
Can we just rent it from you?
Yes. I understand you're taking away the remains.
Yeah, but we're--
They range up to three thousand.
Yes sir. It is our most modestly priced receptacle.
This is a hundred and eighty dollars.
Yes, so we were informed. However, we must of course transmit the remains to you in a receptacle.
Don't need it. We're scattering the ashes.
That is for the urn.
We have the urn.
I got eighteen dollars, Dude.
Thank you, Donny.
Your phone's ringing, Dude.
I'm going home, Donny.
Where you going, Dude?
Yeah Dude, why is Walter so pissed off?
Yeah, well, what do you care, Walter?
I am the Walrus.
Rug-peers did not do this. I mean look at it. Young trophy wife. Marries a guy for money but figures he isn't giving her enough. She owes money all over town--
What do you mean, Dude?
Yeah, this is the guy, this guy should compensate me for the fucking rug. I mean his wife goes out and owes money and they pee on my rug.
His name is Lebowski? That's your name, Dude!
And this guy peed on it.
What the fuck is he talking about?
They won't hurt us, Donny. These men are cowards.
Are they gonna hurt us, Walter?
Shut the fuck up, Donny. Not a bunch of fig-eaters with towels on their heads tryin' to find reverse on a Soviet tank. This is not a worthy--
Who's in pyjamas, Walter?
Shut the fuck up, Donny. We'll, uh, brace the kid--he'll be a pushover. We'll get that fucking money, if he hasn't spent it already. Million fucking clams. And yes, we'll be near the, uh--some burgers, some beers, a few laughs. Our fucking troubles are over, Dude.
We'll be near the In-and-Out Burger.
What have you. We'll, uh--
Shut the fuck up, Donny. This kid is in the ninth grade, Dude, and his father is--are you ready for this?-- Arthur Digby Sellers.
Those are good burgers, Walter.
You gotta buck up, man, you can't go into the tournament with this negative attitude--
What do you need that for, Dude?
Am I wrong?
Are you gonna split hairs?
Come on, Donny, they were threatening castration!
They were Nazis, Dude?
Fucking Germans. Nothing changes. Fucking Nazis.
Oh for Christ--will you shut the fuck up, Donny.
And then they're gonna stamp on it?!
Where's your car, Dude?
Who has your undies, Walter?
Really, Dude, you surprise me. They're not gonna kill shit. They're not gonna do shit. What can they do? Fuckin' amateurs. And meanwhile, look at the bottom line. Who's sitting on a million fucking dollars? Am I wrong?
Walter, if you can't ride in a car, how d'you get around on Shammas--
Kill that poor woman.
Went alright. Dude's car got a little dinged up--
Oh yeah, how'd it go?
What's that, Walter?
I'm shomer shabbas.
How come you don't roll on Saturday, Walter?
WELL THEY CAN FUCKING UN-POST IT!
It's already posted.
I told that kraut a fucking thousand times I don't roll on shabbas.
Saturday! Well they'll have to reschedule.
This Saturday. Quintana and--
Donny, shut the f--when do we play?
They posted the next round of the tournament--
That's fucking exactly what happened, Dude! That makes me fucking SICK!
What the fuck is he talking about?
Shut the fuck up, Donny! V.I. Lenin! Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov!
That fucking bitch!
I am the Walrus.
What's wrong with Walter, Dude?
Life does not stop and start at your convenience, you miserable piece of shit.
If what's during league play?
Shut the fuck up, Donny.
What's a pederast, Walter?
YOU'RE OUT OF YOUR ELEMENT! This Chinaman is not the issue, Dude.
He peed on the Dude's rug--
Yeah Walter, what's your point?
So you have no frame of reference, Donny. You're like a child who wanders in in the middle of a movie and wants to know--
I was bowling--
Were you listening to the Dude's story?
Were you listening to the story, Donny?
What tied the room together, Dude?
That's it! Outta this fucking cab!
--had a rough night, and I hate the fucking Eagles, man--
I pull over and kick your ass out, man!
I've had a--
Fuck you man! You don't like my fucking music, get your own fucking cab!
Jesus, man, can you change the station?
Fuckin' A, man. I got a rash. Fuckin' A, man. I gotta tell ya Tony.
--So he says, "My son can't hold a job, my daughter's married to a fuckin' loser, and I got a rash on my ass so bad I can't hardly siddown. But you know me. I can't complain."
--and bowling. I'll tell you the truth, Brandt, I don't remember most of it.--Jeez! Fuck me!
--smoking thai-stick, breaking into the ROTC--
Well, yeah I did, but I spent most of my time occupying various, um, administration buildings--
One--oh! Heh-heh. You never went to college?
Jeez. Think he's got room for one more?
--without the means for higher education, so Mr. Lebowski has committed to sending all of them to college.
They're not his, heh-heh, they're not literally his children; they're the Little Lebowski Urban Achievers, inner-city children of promise but without the--
I guess he's pretty, uh, racially pretty cool--
Different mothers, huh?
These are Mr. Lebowski's children, so to speak--
Wonderful woman. We were very--
Nancy's pretty good.
And in fact he met privately with the President, though unfortunately there wasn't time for a photo opportunity.
Mr. Lebowski is disabled, yes. And this picture was taken when Mrs. Reagan was first lady of the nation, yes, yes? Not of California.
He's handicapped, huh?
Of course, Mr. Lebowski on the right, Mrs. Reagan on the left, taken when--
Lebowski on the right?
That is indeed Mr. Lebowski with the first lady, yes, taken when--
Hey, is this him with Nancy?
That's a Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce Business Achiever award, which is given--not necessarily given every year! Given only when there's a worthy, somebody especially--
That's the key to the city of Pasadena, which Mr. Lebowski was given two years ago in recognition of his various civic, uh.
I'm not really, uh.
Please, feel free to inspect them.
Yes, uh, very impressive.
And this is the study. You can see the various commendations, honorary degrees, et cetera.
And the, uh, the briefcase?
Sometimes. I wouldn't hold out much hope for the tape deck though. Or the Creedence tapes.
Your rug was in the car.
...Also, my rug was stolen.
...Me, I don't drink coffee. But it's nice when they offer.
And what do you do, sir?
Papers. Just papers. You know, my papers. Business papers.
In the briefcase?
Huh? Oh. Yeah. Tape deck. Couple of Creedence tapes. And there was a, uh. . . my briefcase.
And was there anything of value in the car?
Green. Some brown, or, uh, rust, coloration.
1972 Pontiac LeBaron.
Yeah man. Well, you know, the Dude abides.
Sure. Take it easy, Dude--I know that you will.
Thanks, Gary...Take care, man, I gotta get back.
Ahh, you know. Strikes and gutters, ups and downs.
Wouldn't miss the semis. How things been goin'?
Oh, hey man, how are ya? I wondered if I'd see you again.
Howdy do, Dude.
Yeah. Thanks man.
Take it easy, Dude.
Thankie. . . Just one thing, Dude. D'ya have to use s'many cuss words?
Well I like your style too, man. Got a whole cowboy thing goin'.
I like your style, Dude.
Far from it.
Uh-huh. That some kind of Eastern thing?
One a those days, huh. Wal, a wiser fella than m'self once said, sometimes you eat the bar and sometimes the bar, wal, he eats you.
Ahh, not so good, man.
Okay, Jackie, done. I like the way you do business. Your money is being held by a kid named Larry Sellers. He lives in North Hollywood, on Radford, near the In-and-Out Burger. A real fuckin' brat, but I'm sure your goons'll be able to get it off him, mean he's only fifteen and he's flunking social studies. So if you'll just write me a check for my ten per cent. . . of half a million. . . fifty grand.
Let's say a 10% finder's fee?
Does the Pope shit in the woods?
Of course, there's that to discuss. Refill?
Yeah, well, right man, there are many facets to this, uh, you know, many interested parties. If I can find your money, man-- what's in it for the Dude?
I've heard the kidnapping story, so save it. I know you're mixed up in all this, Dude, and I don't care what you're trying to take off her husband. That's your business. All I'm saying is, I want mine.
But she hasn't run off, she's been--
Me? How would I know? The only reason she ran off was to get away from her rather sizable debt to me.
I thought you might know, man.
Of course you do. I can see you're anxious for me to get to the point. Well Dude, here it is. Where's Bunny?
Uh-huh. Well, I still jerk off manually.
Of course, you do get the good with the bad. The new technology permits us to do exciting things with interactive erotic software. Wave of the future, Dude. 100% electronic.
On you, maybe.
People forget that the brain is the biggest erogenous zone--
Regrettably, it's true, standards have fallen in adult entertainment. It's video, Dude. Now that we're competing with the amateurs, we can't afford to invest that little extra in story, production value, feeling.
Which one was Logjammin'?
I wouldn't know, Dude. I deal in publishing, entertainment, political advocacy, and--
White Russian, thanks. How's the smut business, Jackie?
What's your drink, Dude?
This is quite a pad you got here, man. Completely unspoiled.
Francis Donnelly. Pleased to meet you.
Hello, gentlemen. You are the bereaved?
Irish m--What the fuck are you talking about? My name's Da Fino! I'm a private snoop! Like you, man!
Brother Shamus? Like an Irish monk?
Hey, relax man, I'm a brother shamus.
Who the fuck are you? Why've you been following me? Come on, fuckhead!
Relax, man! No physical harm intended!
Who the fuck are you, man! Come on, man!
I FUCKEEN KILL JOR FUCKEEN CAR!
No! No! NO! THAT'S NOT--
No, the, uh, police chief of Malibu. A real reactionary. . . So your father. . . Oh man, I get it!
Exactly. What happened to your face? Did Jackie Treehorn do that as well?
Look, Jeffrey, I don't want a partner. In fact I don't want the father to be someone I have to see socially, or who'll have any interest in rearing the child himself.
Yeah, okay, but see, the Dude--
I want a child.
Well...no, of course not--
Well yes, what did you think this was all about? Fun and games?
Huh. Jeez. Well, so, did he--is that yoga?
He helps administer the charities now, and I give him a reasonable allowance. He has no money of his own. I know how he likes to present himself; Father's weakness is vanity. Hence the slut.
We did let Father run one of the companies, briefly, but he didn't do very well at it.
But your father--he runs stuff, he--
No no, the wealth was all Mother's.
Huh? He's fucking loaded.
I keep telling you, it's the Foundation's money. Father doesn't have any.
It's a complicated case, Maude. Lotta ins, lotta outs. Fortunately I've been adhering to a pretty strict, uh, drug regimen to keep my mind, you know, limber. I'm real fucking close to your father's money, real fucking close. It's just--
Larry Sellers, a high-school kid. Real fucking brat.
It's not my father's money, it's the Foundation's. Why did he think you had it? And who does?
He thought I had your father's money, so he got me out of the way while he looked for it.
Jackie Treehorn trashed the place. Wanted to save the finder's fee.
What happened to your house?
Oh, you know, the usual. Bowl. Drive around. The occasional acid flashback.
What do you do for fun?
Bunch of assholes. And then, you know, little of this, little of that. My career's, uh, slowed down a bit lately.
Yeah. Roadie for Metallica. Speed of Sound Tour.
And then. . . let's see, I uh--music business briefly.
Not the compromised second draft. And then I, uh. . . Ever hear of the Seattle Seven?
I was, uh, one of the authors of the Port Huron Statement.--The original Port Huron Statement.
Well, uh. . . Not much to tell.
Tell me a little about yourself, Jeffrey.
I want you to see him immediately.
Please Jeffrey. I don't want to be responsible for any delayed after- effects.
Huh? No, really, I don't even have the bruise any more, I--
Do you still have that doctor's number?
Well, no, not exactly. It's a complicated case, Maude. Lotta ins. Lotta outs. And a lotta strands to keep in my head, man. Lotta strands in old Duder's--
So Dieter has the money?
Well yeah...I know that.
Look, Jeffrey, you don't really kidnap someone that you're acquainted with. You can't get away with it if the hostage knows who you are.
Is he pretending to be the abductor?
Jeez. I miss vinyl.
Huh? Autobahn. A-u-t-o. Their music is a sort of--ugh--techno-pop.
Roy Orbison. . . Pink Floyd.
Dieter has been on the fringes of-- well, of everything in L.A., for about twenty years. Look at my LP's. Under 'Autobahn.'
Beaver? You mean vagina?--I mean, you know him?
Her "co-star" in the beaver picture?
Well--yeah, I guess--
The main guy, Dieter--
I'm telling you, I got definitive evidence--
She is most definitely the perpetrator and not the victim.
Now I got--
And please don't call her my mother.
Hey man, why don't you fucking listen occasionally? You might learn something. Now I got--
She most certainly was not!
I, uh... money, yeah, I gotta respecfully, 69 you know, tender my resignation on that matter, 'cause it looks like your mother really was kidnapped after all.
Do you have any news regarding my father's money?
No it's fine, really, uh--
Jeffrey, you haven't gone to the doctor.
Please see him, Jeffrey. He's a good man, and thorough.
That's really thoughtful but I--
Here's the name and number of a doctor who will look at it for you. You will receive no bill. He's a good man, and thorough.
Oh that's okay, I hardly even--
--your rug, yes, well with that money you can buy any number of rugs that don't have sentimental value for me. And I am sorry about that crack on the jaw.
Yeah, but what about--
Thousand, yes, bones or clams or whatever you call them.
If you successfully do so, I will compensate you to the tune of 1% of the recovered sum.
Well--sure, I could do that--
I'm getting to your rug. My father and I don't get along; he doesn't approve of my lifestyle and, needless to say, I don't approve of his. Still, I hardly wish to make my father's embezzlement a police matter, so I'm proposing that you try to recover the money from the people you delivered it to.
Yeah, but my-
Little Lebowski Urban Achievers, yes, and proud we are of all of them. I asked my father about his withdrawal of a million dollars from the Foundation account and he told me about this "abduction", but I tell you it is preposterous. This compulsive
Shit yeah, the achievers.
Don't be fatuous, Jeffrey. Little matter to me that this woman chose to pursue a career
He fixes the cable?
Lord. You can imagine where it goes from here.
Take a look at this, sir.
Listen, Maude, I'm sorry if your stepmother is a nympho, but I don't see what it has to do with--do you have any kalhua?
Yes Mr. Lebowski, these unfortunate souls cannot love in the true sense of the word. Our mutual acquaintance Bunny is one of these.
I like it too. It's a male myth about feminists that we hate sex. It can be a natural, zesty enterprise. But unfortunately there are some people--it is called satyriasis in men, nymphomania in women--who engage in it compulsively and without joy.
You mean coitus?
You're not interested in sex?
I was talking about my rug.
Sex. The physical act of love. Coitus. Do you like it?
Do you like sex, Mr. Lebowski?
Right, but let me explain something about that rug--
Yes, I know about it. And I know that you acted as courier. And let me tell you something: the whole thing stinks to high heaven.
Yes, they don't like hearing it and find it difficult to say. Whereas without batting an eye a man will refer to his "dick" or his "rod" or his "Johnson".
In a sense, yes. Elfranco, my robe. My art has been commended as being strongly vaginal. Which bothers some men. The word itself makes some men uncomfortable. Vagina.
Is that what that's a picture of?
You're a fuck, Walter!
Shit Dude, I'm sorry--
What the fuck does Vietnam have to do with anything! What the fuck were you talking about?!
Dude, I'm sorry--
What about that shit about Vietnam!
Dude, I'm--it was an accident!
You make everything a fucking travesty!
Dude! Dude, I'm sorry!
Goddamnit Walter! You fucking asshole!
JUST BECAUSE WE'RE BEREAVED DOESN'T MEAN WE'RE SAPS!
We're scattering the fucking ashes!
A hundred and eighty dollars?!
Well can we--
The Dude, actually. Is what, uh.
Hurry Dude. I'd go but I'm pumping blood. Might pass out.
Wha. . . Donny--
Call the medics, Dude.
It's a heart attack.
There weren't any shots.
They shot Donny!
Hy God! They shot him, Walter!
Come on, Walter!.
What's mine is mine.
AND I'D LIKE MY UNDIES BACK!
Hey, cool it Walter. Listen, pal, there never was any money. The big Lebowski gave me an empty briefcase, man, so take it up with him.
Hey, cool it Walter.
Fuck you. Fuck the three of you.
That's fuckin' combat. The man in the black pyjamas, Dude. Worthy fuckin' adversary.
I mean 'Nam was a foot soldier's war whereas, uh, this thing should be a fucking cakewalk. I mean I had an M16, Jacko, not an Abrams fucking tank. Just me and Charlie, man, eyeball to eyeball.
Sure you'll see some tank battles. But fighting in desert is very different from fighting in canopy jungle.
We're sorry, man. We're really sorry.
Shit, Dude, I didn't know. I wouldn't've done it if I knew he was a fucking crybaby.
Walter, you fuck!
Yeah, I can see that, Dude.
He can't walk, Walter!
Sure, I'll put him down, Dude. RAUSS! ACHTUNG, BABY!!
WALTER, FOR CHRIST'S SAKE! HE'S CRIPPLED! PUT HIM DOWN!
It's all over, man! We call your fucking bluff!
You thought Bunny'd been kidnapped and you could use it as a pretext to make some money disappear. All you needed was a sap to pin it on, and you'd just met me. You thought, hey, a deadbeat, a loser, someone the square community won't give a shit about.
AS IF WE WOULD EVER DREAM OF TAKING YOUR BULLSHIT MONEY!
Three thousand years of beautiful tradition, from Moses to Sandy Koufax-- YOU'RE GODDAMN RIGHT I LIVE IN THE PAST! I--Jesus. What the hell happened?
It's just part of your whole sick Cynthia thing. Taking care of her fucking dog. Going to her fucking synagogue. You're living in the fucking past.
I'm as Jewish as fucking Tevye
Yeah? What do you think happens when you get divorced? You turn in your library card? Get a new driver's license? Stop being Jewish?
And you were divorced five fucking years ago.
You know this!
Yeah, and you were--
What the fuck are you talking about? I converted when I married Cynthia! Come on, Dude!
You're fucking Polish Catholic--
What the fuck are you talking about?
Walter, come off it. You're not even fucking Jewish, you're--
I'm saying, I see what you're getting at, Dude, he kept the money, but my point is, here we are, it's shabbas, the sabbath, which I'm allowed to break only if it's a matter of life and death--
Okay, but how does all this add up to an emergency?
His million bucks was never in it, man! There was no money in that briefcase! He was hoping they'd kill her! You throw out a ringer for a ringer!
What's your point, Dude?
I'm saying if he knows I'm a fuck- up, then why does he still leave me in charge of getting back his wife? Because he fucking doesn't want her back, man! He's had enough! He no longer digs her! It's all a show! But then, why didn't he give a shit about his million bucks? I mean, he knew we didn't hand off his briefcase, but he never asked for it back.
Well it's, sometimes the cathartic, uh.
I mean we totally fucked it up, man. We fucked up his pay-off. And got the kidnappers all pissed off, and the big Lebowski yelled at me a lot, but he didn't do anything. Huh?
WALTER, YOU FUCKING ASSHOLE, WE GOTTA GO TO PASADENA! COME PICK ME UP OR I'M OFF THE FUCKING BOWLING TEAM!
Dude, I'm not supposed to make calls--
THEN WHY CAN'T YOU--fuck, never mind, just call Donny then, and ask him to--
I understand. That's why I picked up the phone.
It is a fucking emergency.
Erev shabbas. I can't drive. I'm not even supposed to pick up the phone, unless it's an emergency.
I can't drive, Dude, it's erev shabbas.
Walter, listen, I'm at my place, I need you to come pick me up--
Walter, if you're there, pick up the fucking phone. Pick it up, Walter, this is an emergency. I'm not--
And the fucking money. And we know that this is your homework, Larry.
And the fucking money!
You're going to enter a world of pain, son. We know that this is your homework. We know you stole a car--
Oh, for Christ's sake, Walter!
Look, Larry. . . Have you ever heard of Vietnam?
We know it's his fucking homework, Walter! Where's the fucking money, you little brat?
Is this your homework, Larry?
Is the car out front yours?
Is this yours, Larry? Is this your homework, Larry?
Just ask him if he--ask him about the car, man!
Dude, please!. . . Is this your homework, Larry?
Look, man, did you--
Is this your homework, Larry?
Hardly Dude, a new 'vette? The kid's still got, oh, 96 to 97 thousand, depending on the options. Wait in the car, Donny.
Fuck me, man! That kid's already spent all the money!
Yeah, go figure. Well we'll go out there after the, uh, the.
And yet his son is a fucking dunce.
Not exactly a lightweight.
The bulk of the series.
Fucking Arthur Digby Sellers wrote 156 episodes, Dude.
Yeah yeah, I know the fucking show Walter, so what?
All but one man died? There at Bitter Creek?
Who the f--have you ever heard of a little show called Branded, Dude?
Who the fuck is Arthur Digby Sellers?
Who the fuck is that?
Near the In-and-Out Burger--
The In-and-Out Burger is on Camrose.
He lives in North Hollywood on Radford, near the In-and-Out Burger--
Fuck your sympathy! I don't need your sympathy, man, I need my fucking Johnson!
--We're sympathizing here, Dude--
Who gives a shit about the fucking marmot!
What're you, a fucking park ranger now?
And let's also not forget--let's not forget, Dude--that keeping wildlife, an amphibious rodent, for uh, domestic, you know, within the city-- that isn't legal either.
They kept saying they believe in nothing.
This whole fucking thing--I could be sitting here with just pee-stains on my rug.
That makes me feel all warm inside.
Yeah, thanks Walter. That gives me a very secure feeling.
Not if I have anything to say about it.
Now that is ridiculous, Dude. No one is going to cut your dick off.
I figure my only hope is that the big Lebowski kills me before the Germans can cut my dick off.
Don't run away from this, Dude! Goddamnit, this affects all of us!
All right, I'm leaving. I'm sorry ma'am.
Lady, I got buddies who died face- down in the muck so you and I could enjoy this family restaurant!
FORGET ABOUT THE FUCKING TOE!
What about the toe?
Well that's just, that's the stress talking, Dude. So far we have what looks to me like a series of victimless crimes--
They're gonna kill her, Walter, and then they're gonna kill me--
I'll get you a toe by this afternoon--with nail polish. These fucking amateurs. They send us a toe, we're supposed to shit our- selves with fear. Jesus Christ. My point is--
You want a toe? I can get you a toe, believe me. There are ways, Dude. You don't wanna know about it, believe me.
Someone else's--where the fuck are they gonna--
Fine, Dude. As if it's impossible to get some nail polish, apply it to someone else's toe--
The nail polish, Walter.
How the fuck should I know? I do know that nothing about it indicates--
Whose toe was it, Walter?
That wasn't her toe.
Aw, fuck it.
Well, certainly that's a possibility, Dude--
It's been stolen, Walter! You fucking know it's been stolen!
Hmm. Well, we were in a handicapped spot. It, uh, it was probably towed.
You don't know, Walter? You seem to know the answer to everything else!
And what do they got, Dude? My dirty undies. My fucking whites--Say, where is the car?
"Our" car, Walter?
Who's got a fucking million fucking dollars parked in the trunk of our car out here?
Yeah yeah, "kill that poor woman."
But Walter, we didn't make the fucking hand- off! They didn't get, the fucking money and they're gonna-- they're gonna--
For Christ's sake, Dude.
That's it. I'm out of here.
Saturday is shabbas. Jewish day of rest. Means I don't work, I don't drive a car, I don't fucking ride in a car, I don't handle money, I don't turn on the oven, and I sure as shit don't fucking roll!
Yeah, and in the meantime what do I tell Lebowski?
C'mon Dude, eventually she'll get sick of her little game and, you know, wander back--
Who gives a shit, Walter? What about that poor woman? What do we tell--
I told that fuck down at the league office-- who's in charge of scheduling?
Walter, what'm I gonna tell Lebowski?
That's right, Dude, 1 % certain--
No, Walter! I said I thought she kidnapped herself! You're the one who's so fucking certain--
What the fuck're you talking about? That poor woman--that poor slut-- kidnapped herself, Dude. You said so yourself--
Huh? The problem is--what do you mean what's the--there's no--we didn't-- they're gonna kill that poor woman--
Huh? Oh, him, yeah. Well I don't see, um-- what exactly is the problem?
What the fuck is that supposed to mean? What the fuck're we gonna tell Lebowski?
Aitz chaim he, Dude. As the ex used to say.
You didn't think I was rolling out of here naked!
Your wheel! At fifteen em-pee-aitch I roll out! I double back, grab one of 'em and beat it out of him! The uzi!
What the fuck?
Your wheel, Dude! I'm rolling out!
Okay, Dude. No time to argue. Here's the bridge--
Fuck that! I love you, Walter, but sooner or later you're gonna have to face the fact that you're a goddamn moron.
The bridge is coming up! Gimme the ringer, Dude! Chop-chop!
I'm throwing the money, Walter! We're not fucking around!
Wooden bridge, huh?
Well call them up and explain it to 'em, Walter! Your plan is so fucking simple, I'm sure they'd fucking understand it! That's the beauty of it Walter!
We can't do that, Dude. That fucks up our plan.
We throw the money out of the moving car!
There is no fucking hand-off, Walter! At a wooden bridge we throw the money out of the car!
What'd he say? Where's the hand- off?
Thaaat's right, Dude. The beauty of this is its simplicity. If the plan gets too complex something always goes wrong. If there's one thing I learned in Nam--
Yeah. That's a great plan, Walter. That's fucking ingenious, if I understand it correctly. That's a Swiss fucking watch.
That's the simple part, Dude. When we make the handoff, I grab the guy and beat it out of him.
Terrific, Walter. But you haven't told me how we get her back. Where is she?
Yeah. So as long as we get her back, nobody's in a position to complain. And we keep the baksheesh.
Okay Dude. Have it your way.
Shutup, Walter! Don't fucking say peep when I'm doing business here.
Ya see? Nothing is fucked up here, Dude. Nothing is fucked. These guys are fucking amateurs--
Dude, nothing is fucked. Come on. You're being very unDude. They'll call back. Look, she kidnapped her--
We're screwed now! We don't get shit and they're gonna kill her! We're fucked, Walter!
They hung up, Walter! You fucked it up! You fucked it up! Her life was in our hands!
What the fuck is going on there?
Oh shit. Walter.
It is a fucking game. You said so yourself, Dude--she kidnapped herself--
Yes you're wrong. This isn't a fucking game, Walter--
My point, Dude, is why should we settle for twenty grand when we can keep the entire million. Am I wrong?
We? What the fuck we? You said you just wanted to come along--
Well you're right, Dude, I got to thinking. I got to thinking why should we settle for a measly fucking twenty grand--
Walter--what the fuck are you thinking?
Thaaaat's right, Dude. The weight. The ringer can't look empty.
Walter, I'm sure there's a reason you brought your dirty undies--
My dirty undies. Laundry, Dude. The whites.
What the hell is this?
The ringer! The ringer, Dude! Have they called yet?
It's your roll.
The fucking point is--
It's your roll--
Have it your way. The point is--
Walter, face it, there isn't any connection. It's your roll.
Well, there isn't a literal connection, Dude.
I don't see any connection to Vietnam, Walter.
Those rich fucks! This whole fucking thing-- I did not watch my buddies die face down in the muck so that this fucking strumpet--
It's all a goddamn fake. Like Lenin said, look for the person who will benefit. And you will, uh, you know, you'll, uh, you know what I'm trying to say--
I figure it's easy money, it's all pretty harmless. I mean she probably kidnapped herself.
I told him if it was during league play--
What if it's during a game?
...They gave Dude a beeper, so whenever these guys call--
Just for making the hand-off?
Twenty grand. And of course I still keep the rug.
Anyway. How much they offer you?
When he moved down to Venice he had to go door-to-door to tell everyone he's a pederast.
The man is a sex offender. With a record. Spent six months in Chino for exposing himself to an eight- year-old.
Yeah, but he's a fucking pervert, Dude.
Calmer than you are.
Yeah? Wavin' a gun around?!
I'm perfectly calm, Dude.
Well, just take 't easy, man.
That's your answer to everything, Dude. And let me point out--pacifism is not--look at our current situation with that camelfucker in Iraq-- pacifism is not something to hide behind.
Just, just take it easy, Walter.
Okay then. We play Quintana and O'Brien next week. They'll be pushovers.
You're not wrong, Walter, you're just an asshole.
Am I wrong!
No, you're not wrong--
Huh. I did not know that. Well, it's water under the bridge. And we do enter the next round-robin, am I wrong?
He's fragile, man! He's very fragile!
You mean--beyond pacifism?
And you know Smokey has emotional problems!
You know Dude, I myself dabbled with pacifism at one point. Not in Nam, of course--
Walter, you can't do that. These guys're like me, they're pacificists. Smokey was a conscientious objector.
MARK IT ZERO!
Walter, they're calling the cops, put the piece away.
Mark that frame an eight, you're entering a world of pain.
Smokey my friend, you're entering a world of pain.
This is a league game. This determines who enters the next round- robin, am I wrong?
Come on Walter, it's just--it's Smokey. So his toe slipped over a little, it's just a game.
Fucking dog has papers, Dude.--Over the line!
First of all, Dude, you don't have an ex, secondly, it's a fucking show dog with fucking papers. You can't board it. It gets upset, its hair falls out.
Hey, man, if my fucking ex-wife asked me to take care of her fucking dog while she and her boyfriend went to Honolulu, I'd tell her to go fuck herself. Why can't she board it?
What do you mean "brought it bowling"? I didn't rent it shoes. I'm not buying it a fucking beer. He's not gonna take your fucking turn, Dude.
You brought a fucking Pomeranian bowling?
I'm saying, Cynthia's Pomeranian. I'm looking after it while Cynthia and Marty Ackerman are in Hawaii.
What the fuck are you--
Huh? Oh--Cynthia's Pomeranian. Can't leave him home alone or he eats the furniture.
What the fuck're you talking about? The carrier. What's in the fucking carrier?
State of Israel. If you will it, Dude, it is no--
You're fucking twenty minutes late. What the fuck is that?
Way to go, Dude. If you will it, it is no dream.
Yeah, I could find this Lebowski guy--
Okay. That, uh.
Am I wrong!
Jeff Lebowski. Come on. This other Jeffrey Lebowski. The millionaire. He's gonna be easier to find anyway than these two, uh. these two . . . And he has the wealth, uh, the resources obviously, and there is no reason, no FUCKING reason, why his wife should go out and owe money and they pee on your rug. Am I wrong?
Walter, he peed on my rug--
What the fuck are you--
Walter, this is not a guy who built the rail- roads, here, this is a guy who peed on my--
What the fuck are you talking about?! This Chinaman is not the issue! I'm talking about drawing a line in the sand, Dude. Across this line you do not, uh--and also, Dude, Chinaman is not the preferred, uh. . . Asian- American. Please.
This Chinaman who peed on my rug, I can't go give him a bill so what the fuck are you talking about?
Forget it, Donny. You're out of your element.
Huh? No! What the fuck are you talking--I'm not--we're talking about unchecked aggression here--
What's the point of--we all know who was at fault, so what the fuck are you talking about?
There's no fucking reason--here's my point, Dude--there's no fucking reason--
What's your point, Walter?
This was a valued, uh.
Yeah man, it really tied the room together--
This was, uh--
I understand sir. Could you slide your shorts down please?
Huh? No, she, she hit me right here.
Friends like these, huh Gary.
Another Caucasian, Gary.
You are approaching a vooden britch. When you cross it you srow ze bag from ze left vindow of ze moving kar. Do not slow down. Vee vatch you.
Hey, just tell me where the fuck you want us to go.
So no funny stuff. Okay?
Okay, vee proceed. But only if there is no funny stuff.
Shut the fuck up. Hello?
Dude the Bagman. Where do you want us to go?
Who is this?
--so, like I say, just thought, you know, fair warning. Tell Walter.
Dude, this is Smokey. Look, I don't wanna be a hard-on about this, and I know it wasn't your fault, but I just thought it was fair to tell you that Gene and I will be submitting this to the League and asking them to set aside the round. Or maybe forfeit it to us--
It's uh, it's down there somewhere. Lemme take another look.
WHERE'S THE FUCKING MONEY, SHITHEAD!
Help me put him back in his chair.
Put me down, you son of a bitch!
All right, get out. Both of you.
Well. . . yeah.
Well? Aren't you?
Well, you have your story, I have mine. I say I entrusted the money to you, and you stole it.
We know the briefcase was empty, man. We know you kept the million bucks yourself.
Where's the money, Lebowski?
Well, she's back. No thanks to you.
Well, okay, if you've already made out the check. Brandt is handing him a letter-sized envelope which is distended by something inside.
Brandt, give him the envelope.
No. No Mr. Lebowski, that had not occurred to me.
Well sure, look at it! Young trophy wife, I mean, in the parlance of our times, owes money all over town, including to known pornographers-- and that's cool, that's cool-- but I'm saying, she needs money, and of course they're gonna say they didn't get it 'cause she wants more, man, she's gotta feed the monkey, I mean-- hasn't that ever occurred to you...? Sir?
I'll tell you what I'm blathering about! I got information--new shit has come to light and--shit, man! She kidnapped herself!
What in God's holy name are you blathering about?
I--the royal we, you know, the editorial--I dropped off the money, exactly as per--Look, I've got certain information, certain things have come to light, and uh, has it ever occurred to you, man, that given the nature of all this new shit, that, uh, instead of running around blaming me, that this whole thing might just be, not, you know, not just such a simple, but uh--you know?
C'mon man, who're you gonna believe? Those guys are--we dropped off the damn money--
They did not receive the money, you nitwit! They did not receive the goddamn money. HER LIFE WAS IN YOUR HANDS!
Well we--I don't--
Where's my goddamn money, you bum?!
Strong men also cry. . . Strong men also cry.
Bunny Lebowski. . . She is the light of my life. Are you surprised at my tears, sir?
Mind if I smoke a jay?
Sure. That and a pair of testicles.
Is it. . . is it, being prepared to do the right thing? Whatever the price? Isn't that what makes a man?
I don't know, sir.
It's funny. I can look back on a life of achievement, on challenges met, competitors bested, obstacles overcome. I've accomplished more than most men, and without the use of my legs. What. . . What makes a man, Mr. Lebowski?
Sure! Fuck it! That's your answer! Tattoo it on your forehead! Your answer to everything!
Ah fuck it.
My wife is not the issue here. I hope that my wife will someday learn to live on her allowance, which is ample, but if she doesn't, sir, that will be her problem, not mine, just as your rug is your problem, just as every bum's lot in life is his own responsibility regardless of whom he chooses to blame. I didn't blame anyone for the loss of my legs, some chinaman in Korea took them from me but I went out and achieved anyway. I can't solve your problems, sir, only you can.
No, look. I do mind. The Dude minds. This will not stand, ya know, this will not stand, man. I mean, if your wife owes--
But I do work, so if you don't mind--
Is this a--what day is this?
You don't go out and make a living dressed like that in the middle of a weekday.
Are you employed, sir?
Look, let me explain something. I'm not Mr. Lebowski; you're Mr. Lebowski. I'm the Dude. So that's what you call me. That, or Duder. His Dudeness. Or El Duderino, if, you know, you're not into the whole brevity thing--
You're just looking for a handout like every other--are you employed, Mr. Lebowski?
Come on, man, I'm not trying to scam anybody here, I'm just--
Hello! Hello! So every time--I just want to understand this, sir-- every time a rug is micturated upon in this fair city, I have to compensate the--
Well no, like I said, Woo peed on the rug--
Hello! Do you speak English? Parla usted Inglese? I'll say it again. Did I urinate on your rug?
You mean, did you personally come and pee on my--
Did I urinate on your rug?
So you know they were trying to piss on your rug--
I'll say it again, all right? You told Brandt. He told me. I know what happened. Yes? Yes?
Well they were looking for you, these two guys, they were trying to--
You told Brandt on the phone, he told me. So where do I fit in?
Well sir, it's this rug I have, really tied the room together-
Stay away from me! You bullies! You and these women! You won't leave a man his fucking balls!
Shit, sorry man.
You're bullies! Cowards, both of you!
Stay away from me, mister!
This guy fucking walks. I've never been more certain of anything in my life!
Let me tell you something else. I've seen a lot of spinals, Dude, and this guy is a fake. A fucking goldbricker.
I said out. Now.
Look at that fucking phony, Dude! Pretending to be a fucking millionaire!
I'll tell you who I am! I'm the guy who's gonna KICK YOUR PHONY GOLDBRICKING ASS!
Who the hell is he?
This is a league game, Smokey!
You happy, you crazy fuck?
All right! There it is! It's fucking zero!
YOU THINK I'M FUCKING AROUND HERE? MARK IT ZERO!!
A world of pain.
Yeah, but I wasn't over. Gimme the marker, Dude, I'm marking it an eight.
Am I wrong!?
This is not Nam. This is bowling. There are rules.
Excuse me! Mark it zero. Next frame.
Bullshit. Eight, Dude.
Over the line, Smokey! I'm sorry. That's a foul.
He's all yours. And I'm not your partner.
He's half yours, partner.
<i>You'll</i> take him.
We'll take 'em in the morning.
Whatta we do about the Mex?
Wanna hear something more impressive? My first twenty fights were stumblebums handpicked by my manager. My girlfriend saw you fight a couple times over at the Olympic. Says maybe you <i>could</i> take me.
Tom here's my ninth hard felon of the month. Six weeks he'll be sucking gas. In three years I'll be working Central Warrants. Jewboy Deputy D.A. over there wets his pants for fighters. Promised me the next spot he can wangle.
I came all the way down here same as you did. Keep from gettin' killed. Happened to see those jarheads beatin' on a good collar-- Habla Ingles, Tomas?
You come all the way down here to roust--
I want to see the sun rise.
What do you want me to do?
How does it look?
I don't understand.
It means "bloodbrother."
Pain cuts the deepest, isn't that what you said?
You're hurting me.
Well it's in mine, too. I'm a pureblood. I wasn't turned. I was born this way. Just like you. Am I evil because I want to survive? What about a wolf? What about any predator?
I am a hunter. A weapon. It's what I do. It's in my blood.
Why do you hate us so much?
If that's true, then why'd you save me?
Get real. I was useful to Damaskinos as long as the hunt was still on. Now that it's over, all bets are off.
It doesn't have to be like that. We don't have to be enemies.
Because one of us is going to kill the other before this ends.
You don't want to go there.
I wouldn't read too much into it.
It would've been easy for you to let me die back there today, but you didn't.
I don't think so.
Anyone else make it?
"Each day is a little life. Every waking and rising a little birth, every fresh morning a little youth, every going to rest and sleep a little death."
Each day is a little life.
Save it. I don't want to hear your words. Let's do this NOW!!!
Blade. We've got six Reapers. They're all dead.
Really? What are we supposed to do, then? Starve ourselves because we fee on others in order to live? What about that scumbag you just let off the hook? A nothing. A drug-dealer. How do you justify saving people like that?
You don't have to hunt to do it.
He's right about one thing. We do have to survive.
Exactly. Look at the digestive system. It's been drastically simplified. Super charged. And this --
Like cancer with a purpose.
I've never seen anything like this. The Reapers are as different from us as we are from you. It's almost as if the virus is re-wiring their bodies, creating new, parasitic organs which consume the old ones.
Nomak's different. He's the carrier. There's something driving him beyond the Thirst. Something we're missing.
If that's true, what about Nomak? He's been alive longer than the others.
No hemoglobin left. Their metabolisms are too fast. They burn out. That's why they're having to feed so often. Their systems are self destructing.
Right. So why is he dying? He doesn't appear to have any broken bones, no entry wounds of any kind -- what's killing him?
Which means he turned about seventy-two hours ago.
From the surveillance footage in the bloodbank. He was one of the guard's Nomak attacked.
how long since he was bitten?
I didn't know.
He escaped. You didn't tell me they were immune to silver and garlic.
What about Nomak?
What was that?
We need it. Sensations are addictive and pain cuts the deepest. Tattoos, piercings, tribal scarring -- because we regenerate, none of it's permanent. So we have to take it to the next level. To remind us we're alive.
What is it with you people and pain?
I haven't forgotten.
This is our world you're entering. You may see things -- feeding. Just remember why you're here.
The House of Pain.
Where to first?
We're going to be working as a unit, you people will be taking orders from me. So let's get it over with. I'll give you a free shot, Reinhardt.
What the hell are you doing, Blade?
You've been training two years to take me out. Here I am, the big, bad vampire hunter. So do it.
No. They've been training to hunt you.
Then they weren't created to go after your "patient zero".
You're missing the point. Their vampire victims don't die. They turn. They become carriers. If the Reapers continue unchecked, there could be thousands of them before the month is over. Do the math.
Seems like he's doing me a favor, then.
They tell bedtime stories about you. Blade the big, bad boogie-man. Frankly, I'm disappointed. That you were willing to come along so easily, I mean. Without any assurances.
Come on, Blade. Talk to me!
Then who does he work for?
I did some checking on that Carter Stevens character. That familiar of theirs who claimed he was with the NIH? Turns out he used to work for them, but he doesn't anymore.
Why don't you ask your girlfriend?
What's your problem, Whistler?
Just out connecting a few dots.
Where the hell have you been?
Your security's for shit, kid.
We'll split into three units. First team that makes contact wins the prize. Try to maintain radio silence from here on out.
Eau de suckhead. Tasty.
It means I'm starting to wonder if the vampires still have their hooks in you. You've been acting strange ever since I gave you the cure. Reckless, quick to anger -- You said it yourself, Whistler. Those vampires knew our defense system backwards and forwards. Where'd they get their intel?
What the hell is that supposed to mean?
Pretty hollow words coming from a man who spent the last year running with the enemy.
I am worrying. Seems to me, you're starting to get confused as to which side of the line you're standing on.
I wouldn't worry about it.
You ask me, you and Miss Muffet are getting a mite too cozy for my taste.
I'll show you.
Where were you, Whistler?
Ran into a little Reaper trouble myself.
I thought you were supposed to be watching our backs.
I'm not giving you a choice, old man.
I don't like it.
He's right. They'll smell that you're human. Stay here, watch our backs.
These guys are shitting bricks cause they're no longer on the top of the food chain. They're going to fuck us the first chance they get.
What do you really think?
Sounds like a plan.
What do you think?
Either that or feeding the worms.
I agree. We play along for now, we might wind up learning something about how their world ticks.
You put a bullet in my brain. Wouldn't expect anything else.
Let's just hope you've kicked the Thirst for good. I'll be watching you close. You start to back-slide --
Took you long enough.
Did you think I wouldn't?
You came back for me.
Like a fucking heifer took a dump in my mouth.
How do you feel?
Seems like there's a lot of that going around these days.
Thought you were dead.
Put it back in park, Blade.
So I think you people may have underestimated how many Reapers you're dealing with.
Must be hundreds of these skeletons here.
You don't have a choice. You're just going to have to protect yourselves as best you can.
Spare me the race card, OJ. We're not going out into the sun. It's too risky.
Look, I care about the humans who are dying, not you, got it?
And so will we.
Revenge. That's what Nomak wanted all along. To pay back the people who created him.
And why is that?
Too bad you're out of it.
True, but thanks to you, we know his weakness. We can keep him contained. It's just a matter of time before we hunt him down.
I should think that would be obvious at this point.
The genetic material you spliced into Nomak -- Where did you get it?
You want me to hunt them for you.
It has been said, you may have enemies whom you hate, but not enemies whom you despise. Be proud of your enemy: then his success shall be yours, too. In that regard, I should thank you.
Two things. One, I was on to you the moment they turned you. And two -- I switched that dud of yours back with the real one.
So that's down and dirty. Got anything to say for yourself?
You're wasting your time, Blade. The flechette's a dud.
Kiss your ass goodbye, Reinhardt.
He wants us to know he's hunting us now.
He was here. Watching us.
What's going on?
Keep your friends close and your enemies closer. Isn't that how the saying goes?
So you're going to do this?
Motion sensors. Looks like Zone Three.
I don't know about this, man --
Gonna try and OD Whistler on a retroviral cure.
Ultra-rapid detox. They use it on heroin addicts, make 'em go cold-turkey in one night.
You got something in mind, Blade?
Ain't nobody here but you and me, chicken wing. I'd say this is as good a time as any to settle up.
What the fuck you doing?
Yeah, but you fangs can see in the dark. What am I supposed to do?
We want to attract them, not scare them off.
Ain't no thing but a chicken wing, buttercup.
Listen, hillbilly, you are a cunt-hair away from cowboy heaven.
You need to ratchet those 'nads of yours down a few notches, paco.
Oh yeah? Like how little? In case you hadn't noticed, we lost two men while you were out farting around.
Well you've got it, warmblood. Now what the fuck are you gonna do with it?
Getting your attention, Paco.
Hey, hey! The fuck you doing?!
Maybe it's better that way.
Are you insane? He'll kill us both!
We're locked in.
You experimented on your own, son?
From his father, of course.
Nomak said something to Blade in Greek. Athelfiki singenia ex amato. Where did he learn that?
I would hate to think you were losing your perspective. Who do you think God favors in the web? The spider or the fly?
Thiavolos, as we used to say in Greece. The Devil. Pure Thirst. Nothing more. He was born a vampire, but he is an anomaly. Like you. Unlike the rest of us, however, he feeds on not just humans, but vampires as well.
His name is Jared Nomak.
As scripted? You've already lost two of your own. How many more are you willing to sacrifice?
You worry too much, Stevens. I have assurance from our friend inside that events are unfolding as scripted.
Any game worthy of being played is. One must be patient. In this way, I have outlived my enemies. All of them.
No. This is a dangerous game, you're playing, Damaskinos.
An inevitability, I suppose. Nyssa was not among them, I trust.
Two so far.
They've made contact with the Reapers.
Us? What are you talking about?
Your blood has a very rare phenotype, one that's quite valuable to people like us.
It depends. We came up with some unusual results on your blood test.
No -- Does that mean I can't be a donor?
Nobody to call in case of an emergency?
Not that I'm in contact with.
I see from your questionnaire that you don't have any immediate next of kin?
Back when Blade had me hunting down your puckered old ass. What's up with your hair, anyway? Fucking Willie Nelson look-a-like?
You little shit. When did they get to you?
Yeah, your little cootchie knew.
After last night? Dude, I'm a lover, not a fighter.
What about you? You're not coming?
I was backpacking. Hooked up with these two chicks who were off to see the Burning Man festival. We were gonna take "E", have ourselves a little freeball out in the desert. You know the riff, "Dear Penthouse, I never thought this would happen to me, but --"
Blade doesn't talk about anything much. What about you, though?
Blade doesn't talk about the old days much.
Going on twenty years now.
So how long have you known Blade, anyway?
Nope. Back then we did not.
Yeah, but you didn't have the Scudster working on it, did you?
You're wasting your time, already been tried.
Tweaked the phosphor rod, modified the collimated beam, wanna concentrate the light, get something like a UV laser going.
The hell are you fiddling with there?
Look, kid, they obviously found your base of operations. If it was a trap, why flip their dicks by announcing themselves?
This whole deal's giving me a serious case of the butt-willies.
Our operation?! Our operation?! I built this operation, you fucking turd stain.
Hey, you think I don't know what's at stake here? We practically compromised our whole operation to save your puckered old ass! And for what?
Look, what's your problem?
Where'd you dig up this shit-bird anyway?
And you'll burn the damn thing out before your next fucking oil change.
Fuck yeah. Whole package'll crank this betty up another three-hundred horsepower.
Gave it a more aggressive exhaust profile ramping.
The pimp-mobile? Just made a few after market modifications. Nitrous-oxide injection system, forged aluminum pistons and crankshaft, higher flowing fuel pump.
Whatever -- What'd you do to the Charger?
Tell me something, Skid --
I know. Just be quick about it, will you? Do it right.
Whistler, I --
No, we can treat the wounds --
Listen. You have to -- finish me off. You don't want me coming back.
Don't try to talk --
China Town. I need more serum. What's all this?
Don't even start, old man.
What took you so long?
Get in. Youre leaving.
It's not worth the risk. We can't trust her.
Maybe not. I did some checking, she's a hematologist. Knowledge like that might come in handy.
Just do it, old man.
I had to increase the dose. You're building up a resistance to the serum --
She hasn't turned yet. You can help her.
You should've killed her, then.
She's been bitten.
Are we bringing home strays now?
It's because I'm human that I can do this.
You're too human, Blade.
You don't have a few minutes, Frost.
You're wrong -- a few minutes more, and my transition will be complete. Even your sword won't be able to affect me then.
Guess you're not quite as invulnerable as you thought.
Who dies first?
You're not going anywhere.
You sure now? I bled a newborn for this. You won't find a drink that's sweeter.
The pause that refreshes -- Care for some? Smells good, doesn't it? Pungent, with just an irrepressible hint of iron.
Am I? You think the humans will ever accept a half-breed like you? They can't. They're afraid of you. The humans fear us because we're superior. They fear us because in their hearts they know their race has become obsolete.
Oh, so it's back to pretending we're human again, is it? Spare me the Uncle Tom routine. You can't keep denying what you are. You're one of us, Blade. You always have been.
Maybe I don't see it that way.
Why not? The future of our race runs through your bloodstream. You've got the best of both worlds, Blade. All of our strengths and none of our weaknesses.
I don't buy it.
It's not very effective in direct sunlight, but it's a start. The goal, of course, is to be like you, "the Day-walker".
I dabble in pharmaceuticals, medical research. We've developed a type of sun-blocker using octyl salicylate, a few others things.
How can you be out here?
Beautiful day, isn't it?
You've been here longer than you think.
But I just got here --
I am tired. Dawn is coming.
How do I stop it?
Yes. The vampire apocalypse. It is said that all who feel its taint will succumb to the Thirst.
"The Blood Tide".
The Day Walker's blood is a disparador -- a trigger, you see? For LaMagra's return. One need only consume it and the spirit of his ancestors will settle upon him. "And the Sleeper will rise from the shadows anew, cleansing the world in a Tide of Blood."
The vampire God. This speaks of His return.
Who is LaMagra?
This is an old tongue, from an old world. It concerns LaMagra.
I didn't come here to get my palms read. I need something translated.
Hold out your hands.
There are other ways to see. Sit.
You're blind --
Is something wrong, my friend?
For them. But for me --
I never imagined I'd be so happy to see the sun rise -- It's over, isn't it?
Yes you will. The human side of you is stronger. I know it is.
I can't -- I won't be able to stop --
It's the only way. You know that. We'll never get out of here alive if you don't.
I know. Take some of my blood.
-- tearing me -- apart.
You don't understand. The Thirst --
I'm not leaving without you.
Get out of here --
What are you talking about?
It won't work on you.
We get out of this alive, maybe I'll take that miracle cure of yours.
Is it bad?
I don't know. I woke up just before you did --
How long have we been driving?
I've been better --
Are you all right?
You make it sound like I'm already dead.
For what it's worth, I'm sorry.
I'm just tired, that's all. We've been up all night.
You don't look so good.
Some. It's been slow --
Your mother sounds like a Hallmark greeting card.
My mother used to say that a cold heart is a dead heart.
We've got a good arrangement, that's all. Whistler makes the weapons, I use them, the vampires die -- end of story.
You care about him, don't you?
Is he sick?
For your miracle cure?
I made a trip to the hospital last night, borrowed some equipment.
Just get out of here.
If you're not human, then why do you bleed like us? I've seen vampire blood, you don't have it running through your veins.
I do. I remember from day one. People staring at me, sensing I was different. Watching the fear grow in their eyes, knowing in their hearts I wasn't human.
Those aren't real memories. No one has that kind of recall.
I can't close my eyes without hearing her scream.
You get used to the darkness.
It's dark in here.
Serum -- it's a human hemoglobin substitute.
What am I injecting you with?
Nothing that won't heal by dawn.
You're hurt --
You've been watching too much TV. They've got their claws sunk into everything -- finance, real estate, politics. Probably own half of Downtown.
Isn't this all a little high-tech? I thought vampires were more into cobwebs and coffins.
Some kind of archive --
What is this place?
There are worse things than vampires out there.
So many of them -- I still can't believe they're real.
The way they move, they way they smell --
How can you tell?
Looks like we hit pay-dirt. This place is crawling with them. See the valets over there? They're vampires. So is the doorman.
You let him go -- An hour ago you were ready to kill a man for less, this one didn't even talk.
Owned by vampires. There's one of these in every major city, and just like Domino's, they always deliver. You telling me you're ready to walk through that door?
I know this place -- it's a blood bank.
What do you see here?
What are you looking at?
You don't know that.
There is no cure.
Look, if what you say is true, if there's a chance I could turn into one of them, then I've got no choice, do I? I have to work with you. I need to learn everything I can about them. It's the only way I'll be able to find a cure for myself.
It's war, now get the fuck out of the way!
You can't do this, he's human, it's murder.
What are you doing?!
For some. Live forever, never get old. The ultimate high.
And that's a good thing?
Because they're vampire wanna-bes. If they're loyal, if they prove themselves, then their masters will turn them.
Why in God's name would anyone want to work for them?
That's a glyph, kind of like a vampire cattle brand. That means Officer Friendly here is someone's property. Any of the other vampire's try to bleed him, they'll have to answer to Friendly's owner -- This glyph belongs to Deacon Frost. We've been tracking him for a while now --
He's a familiar. A human who works for the vampires. See this mark?
But he's a policeman --
He didn't. Get over it.
But, he could've --
It worked, didn't it?
You used me as bait?!
Figured they'd send someone after you. Thought I'd wait around and see who showed up.
How did you know?
That's ridiculous! No one's that powerful.
Do it. You'll be dead before you can file the complaint.
I can go to the police. I have blood samples back at the hospital. I can show them.
Not anymore. You've seen one of them. You won't be allowed to live after that.
I can't just leave. I have a life here, a career --
I don't care what you believe. I saved your life once, I don't plan on making a habit of it. You want my advice, you'll be out of the city by nightfall. If you're stupid enough to stay, that's your business.
And you honestly expect me to believe all this?
What happens then?
Because you're tainted. The venom's still inside you. You could still turn on us.
You're joking --
-- he's a vampire.
I'm sorry, I --
You shouldn't be here.
There's only one alternative to the serum.
Maybe it's time to start exploring other alternatives.
I was afraid that might happen.
Whistler says I'm building up a resistance to it.
I was in the neighborhood.
You're a week early.
How's it going, Kam?
You will. Time is on our side. Sooner or later, the Thirst always wins.
I don't believe that.
I wish you could see the world as I do. Deacon opened my eyes. There's no turning back from that.
You don't understand. I've killed, I've hunted, and I've enjoyed it.
You don't have to be.
These are my people now. I'm one of them.
How could you be a part of this?
Listen to your father, Jason. It's going to be a better world.
Fight him --
Deacon brought me back.
But you -- died --
Jesus, Karen, you're breaking my heart here --
-- but then I remember what an ass-hole you were and I'm snapped back to reality.
Tell me something, honestly, you ever have second thoughts about us?
He looks different now, burns are less extreme, some of these wounds have closed up --
That's weird --
Just the blood sample from the pericardial sac.
You haven't started in on the internal organs?
Five minutes, not a second more. And I don't want to hear a word about "us".
This is purely professional curiosity, Karen, I swear.
I thought you promised to give me some distance?
It's not a joke. I've got the stiff sitting in the morgue right now -- look, just come up and see him, okay? Five minutes, that's all I ask.
Curtis, it's three in the morning. I'm really not in the mood for one of your practical jokes.
What about the chemistry panel?
The red blood cells are biconvex, which is theoretically impossible. They're hypochromic, there's virtually no hemoglobin in them. Look at the PMNs, they're binucleated, they should be mononucleated.
I don't know -- Look at this blood smear --
Then what is it?
This isn't human blood.
The other elders will never let you get away with this!
How do you like that? Right on time.
You're wasting your time, Frost. Far greater scholars than you have tried to decipher these words. Whatever secrets they hold have been lost.
Please. You and the other Elders wouldn't know what to do with these texts if your lives depended on it. Which, of course, they do.
These archives are restricted to members of the House of Erebus.
Someone who's sick of living off scraps. The coming age belongs to us, not the humans! When the final war between our races comes, who do you want leading the charge?
The shadows suit us, Frost. We've existed this way for thousands of years. Who are you to challenge our ways?
He is an abomination!
Study him. Unlock the secrets of his DNA. He's the key we've been looking for.
I see. And what would you have us do with this "half-breed"?
Why should I respect something which has outlived its purpose?
Deacon Frost. You refuse to speak our language, you insult the House of Erebus by using the humans' gutter-tongue, have you no respect for tradition?
The Day Walker represents a unique opportunity. We'd be fools to waste it by killing him.
You're wrong, Dragonetti.
Blade. Once again, our interests have fallen victim to his ridiculous crusade. He must be destroyed.
Get away from him!
I was wrong about you, Blade. You were never one of us. You're a traitor to your race.
You're wasting your breath, woman. He can't hear you now. It's the Thirst, you see? It already has him in its grip.
Why? Because we live at another species' expense? Your people farm cattle and veal, don't they? Fattening them up with steroids? It's called evolution, Doctor. Survival of the fittest.
You're a monster.
Only as a last resort. Preserved blood is inferior. There's no flavor left to it, no life. Fortunately, I've found a way around that particular obstacle.
But you use blood banks --
What makes you think we want to be cured? Blood is only part of the equation. The hunt, the killing, that's what the Thirst is really about.
There's no need for any of this. Your condition can be treated. Whistler and I were working on a cure when --
Who better to usher in the Blood Tide?
LaMagra isn't a physical being. He's a spirit, requiring a flesh and blood host in order to manifest himself.
That's right. The answers were there all along, of course, scribbled down in the forgotten languages of my kind. Waiting for someone with the patience to decipher them. My elders were foolish enough to dismiss them as wives tales. But I knew better. Imagine my surprise when Blade turned out to be the key which would set that force free.
The Blood Tide. Our long-prophesied holy war against the humans. There's a force, you see -- a spirit that exists in our blood. I've discovered a way to invoke it.
What happens then?
A few thousand scattered about the globe. In the past, we've had to restrict our numbers for fear of discovery. That won't be necessary after tonight.
How many of you are there?
I don't know, but the back-up generator should've kicked in.
What happened to the power?
Then we're back to square one, aren't we? Sooner or later, the Thirst always wins.
On me, yes. On Blade, I'm not so sure -- The problem is, Blade didn't contract the vampire virus from a bite like I did. He was born with it. The irony is, I could probably cure every vampire but him.
With a retrovirus. It's injected into the bone marrow cells, it causes the host's DNA to mutate. They've been using them to treat Sickle-cell anemia.
Basically you'd have to re-write the victim's DNA, alter it so that the DNA will produce proteins capable of generating hemoglobin.
Then vampirism is a genetic defect, just like Hemolytic anemia?
Their own blood can't sustain hemoglobin.
All right, let's start with the basics -- why do vampires need to drink blood?
I'll take my chances.
I wouldn't go in there if I were you. It's best to leave him alone when he's like this.
Frost's bodycount keeps rising, and I'm not getting any younger, am I?
And now you're using Blade to exact your revenge?
I didn't. He was cruel enough to let me live. Even gave me a souvenir to remember him by.
How did you escape?
Eventually. He toyed with them first. He made me choose, do you understand? Which order they would die in --
He killed them?
I had a family once -- a wife, three daughters. Then a drifter named Deacon Frost came calling one evening --
Habit, mostly, just like this.
Why do you hunt them?
Which is why you're here. We could use someone with your experience.
No offense, Whistler, but you're not exactly working with state of the art equipment here. You might have missed something.
The Thirst overcomes him, just like the others. It's not something he can control. The problem is, time's running out. His body's starting to reject the serum. And so far, all my efforts to find a cure have ended in failure --
What happens if he doesn't take the serum?
Blade's unique, you know. A one in a billion anomaly. He can withstand sunlight, garlic, even silver. But he still has the Thirst.
We weren't sure we could trust you.
Why didn't you tell me the truth about him?
Go on, I'll be fine!
You think I'd let him run loose without a chaperone? Blade ferrets their rat-holes out, I map them. Then we blow them all to kingdom come.
You've been listening in the whole time?
We keep in radio contact.
There is one other thing. I'd buy yourself a gun if I were you. If you start becoming sensitive to the daylight, if you start becoming thirsty regardless of much you've had to drink -- then I suggest you take that gun and use it on yourself. Better that, than the alternative.
So that's it? You guys just patch me up and send me on my way?
Consider it a parting gift. Vampire mace -- silver nitrate, essence of garlic.
Some of the old wives' tales are true -- they're severely allergic to silver, various types of wood. Feed them garlic and they'll go into anaphylactic shock --
So what do you use, then? A stake?
My name is Abraham Whistler. This is Blade. As for our little homunculus here --
Who are you people?
You've been bitten by a vampire. We've got to try and burn out the venom, just like a rattlesnake bite --
What -- ?
Please! Please...? I haven't done anything.
--my God, Nick???
--Jamie Kurth, Jonathan Edmunds--
I'm not a witch, you're all crazy!
You killed Domini, didn't you, witch??
Closer. Lift the lid and look-- it hurts.
Not that I can see.
My eye, is there something in my eye?
What, are you alright?
Don't know--just that she was afraid--
What happened to her, where did she go?
A coward too. That's why she had to go.
What do you mean?
--bad boys, mean boys, <u>cowardly</u> boys--just like Domini.
Try, please, Anna--
I don't...I don't understand them myself.
I need you to talk to me, talk to me about the dreams--about James, the other boys.
Join the club.
'Give you a hand. I think my sleep for the night just ended.
Because it means the tree is older than the house.
Why don't you just cut it down and count the goddamn rings--who <u>cares</u>?
--or incredibly fucking naive.
--which she may have--
--and if she ever did--
I just wanna go <u>home</u>.
--stop it! Stop talking about it! I'm gonna freak!
Sometimes. Where are we going?
Her father's Sheriff of Taos County.
To stand up--I'm exhausted. Been on the road since yesterday.
Inside the grave?
Trying to find the energy.
What're you doing there?
--he's not my husband!
Let's talk to your husband--
--I'm not staying here!
Look, this is not my field of expertise. You seem stabilized, but why take any chances? Let's keep you overnight and have the Staff obstetrician do a follow-up tomorrow.
Something was wrong.
--doubtful, Mrs. Leavitt. The main thing to remember is, whatever the reason, it was for the best-- it meant something was wrong.
I was out hiking, camping the past two days--that's what did it--<u>I</u> killed it--
Any number of reasons--pick one, it's as good as the other.
Hang you like the witch you are, unless--
I haven't killed any--
--the witch kills children--
There's some stuff that's hard to part with. Editing's stuff's up there--
Looks like business is booming.
That's its name. A pastoral glade gamboling with crackheads and homeless and averaging at least one homicide a week.
That's a joke?
Druid Hill Park.
We're ticketed to fly back from Baltimore, anyway.
You can be goddamn sure, though, I'm going to be looking at every second of 'em when I get back to Baltimore--I get proof who stole my shit and I call the cops!
Oh, sorry, right.
--nothing left to play 'em on, honey.
Not the only things missing, Nick.
This is funny?? This is tens of thousands of fucking dollars! You pricks! I'll see you in fucking court!!
So whoever built this--
No. What's it doing here in the middle of the foundation?
Buried deep under 200 years worth of soil, ash, and compost layers.
Where they found the backpacks and all the film a year later.
The Witch's voice.
"The Voiiiiices made him do it."
Then there she blows.
I dunno, probably right up there, based on her resume.
No idea, just talked to her on the 'Net--she's very good.
What's she look like?
She e-mailed me yesterday this is where we should meet her.
Why are we here?
Guess they thought it was safe to put some up again.
'Thought those all got stolen.
--a six week bun in the oven--
--it's called "morning sickness," asshole--
--but she was nicer then--sweeter-- she hadn't vomited twice already like today--
The bitched-out babe in back here is one Anna Tassio--we met one dark and stormy night in a Blair Witch chat room, we all did--
Only thing I'm feeling is homicidal.
Just trying to set the mood for the mission--get the "feeling."
Down or off--you're giving me a migraine.
Shit? This is from "Josh's Blair Witch Mix," man!
--fuck your bullshit pieties! You were the next to die, asshole!
Oh, Jesus, no--
--what're you saying?? I didn't have anything to do with--
--like you hurt the baby--
I see for proof positive you're the goddamn witch--
Are you marked like this??
--no, what's wrong with you?
The clothes--take 'em off-- I want to see every square inch--
Whatever you want.
I want to see something!
--no, you're not. You love me too much. You don't want to see them kill me.
Then I'm going--
I don't know what it is, but there is something <u>happening</u> here, and it's starting to scare the living shit out me, and look, I'm just <u>not</u> going to argue the point anymore--you want to stay here, stay, but I've got to get the fuck out of here, and I'm begging you to come <u>with</u> me.
Little boys. Looking up my skirt as I danced. Giggling.
What'd you dream?
I get dreams. I don't like 'em.
Just...try and go back to sleep.
Was that you laughing?
I guess, yeah.
--you should get back into bed.
Nothing. I dunno--
What can I get you?
We'll stay overnight, get a hotel--
Get your goddamn--
I'm not going anywhere, 'til--
We're leaving--case dismissed for lack of evidence. Maybe on the ride home we can figure how the fuck we're going to graduate with no thesis.
For once could you just sit down, shut up, and give something a <u>chance</u>?
We've looked at half of one tape.
I think we get the gist.
No idea. But if that's all we've got left--
And what do you possibly think you're going to fucking see there?
I want to see the tapes.
This is a goddamn disaster. Let's just pack it up and go.
--scared the living shit out of us.
You want me to scooch over next to you?
I don't know. Nightmare.
I don't know.
You said the name "James."
--fine, later, fine.
You feel no need to get married or anything.
Could we take this up later--like indoors, without half the world listening?
Why is there no "our" here?
Your body, your call.
You don't want it though.
Let's just leave it at: it was one hell of a surprise.
Like how weirded-out you are with this pregnancy thing.
Pardon me, I've had a few things on my mind--like putting this safari together.
You know, Nick, you've been something of a total asshole the past few days.
No offense, sweetheart: fuck you.
It was <u>free</u>--I recall that was the chief selling point for you.
Your parents didn't have a <u>bigger</u> one?
No--<u>this</u> is weird.
Oh, <u>c'mon</u>--even you have to admit this is weird.
The rest of the family was crazy as Rusty Parr.
--<u>whoever</u>--they built an entire house <u>around</u> a <u>tree</u>. Sticking up right through the living room. Somebody like to explain that to me?
--brother of Rustin Parr's maternal grandfather, somewhere after 1858--
Okay, fine, whatever, yes--it's an <u>old</u> tree.
--do you <u>agree</u> it's that <u>old</u>, Nick?
It's a <u>sketch</u>, Anna--it's not to- scale cartography; the tree was not the kids' focus--
That's a sapling--<u>this</u> mother's got to be three hundred years old, minimum.
What is <u>this</u>?
--chalked just hours ago by ancient adolescents. It's called vandalism.
--or one huge attack of group hysteria.
--doesn't just pop out of thin air. It spins off of real events. At some point there <u>was</u> a Blair Witch--
--whatever; that's her.
No, the kids were actors, the townspeople were real. Her, the Sheriff, the Convenience Store guy--
That's not whatzername--it's Mary Brown.
She <u>is</u>--she's helped solve a bunch of murders: Arizona, New Mexico--
So says her website.
Domini. Domini Von Teer.
Whatzername--the "psychic" Anna hired.
It's like traveling back in time.
Cheery little place.
I can't let you in.
It's my fucking <u>job</u>, man!!
Not until I get that Beta Cam back! We're both in a world of shit here!!
You have to go.
I know you're in there, you piece of shit!
Looks like a rope.
The, uh, blur there.
You mind me asking: why the fuck?
<u>This</u> is what you wanted enhanced?
--no one'll ever know.
--Christ, they find out I let you have it for the weekend--
Beta Cam's still coming back tomorrow, right?
I know, I know.
You're gonna owe me the rest of your life, bud.
It's not about witches, goddamnit!
Just let me get my coat off--I had eight cups of coffee, I'm wired for sound here.
So lemme see it.
Four in the morning?
I got a friend at a Lab. I could get the whole thing blown-up, enhanced--
If I could do that, I'd be at the goddamn racetrack, not here.
Can't you like just divine it?
Who do you know who can? Where do we go?
I'm the ebay Boy, remember? I can't exactly afford that kind of equipment.
Can you zoom it or something, make it real close, real big?
Okay, a blur.
Back it up, rewind, whatever you call it.
There, what? I didn't see anything.
Like hell. Play the goddamn tape.
Does it hurt?
Turn the tapes back on.
This is a little nuts.
What? That made her lose the baby?
Something happened to Anna in Burkittsville, in the woods, I don't know.
--there's something <u>here</u>, Nick--
Hey, <u>chill</u>, man--
Well, please keep me fucking informed!
I don't know yet.
Oh, who did then? Blair Witch? Snatching equipment to make her own sequel?
I don't think it was them.
My ass--you saw those four fucking baboons put 'em there!
--hunch. Just sort've saw 'em there.
How'd you know they were--
--no, I think they're all in there.
<u>One</u> set. Everything from midnight on--
--yeah, the goddamn stoners! Who you think stole the stuff!?
--last thing I remember were those four clowns shooting the movie--
So, I hear you're from New Mexico!
Beer and weed is what I've got.
I want amphetamines.
You want a hand?
Anna's the witch.
Remember....what Mary Brown said-- she could see the witch's hands on my face, her mouth sucking on mine.
Doesn't say--it's just these pages.
--it's the "Blair Witch Cult"--a copy-- some pages from--one of them on the site must've gotten my message--
--shhhh! #5, there's something up there!
--I don't trust anybody, not even me, anymore--
--f'chrissake, Heather, it's not like the two of us are gonna doze off he leaves for two seconds--
No one ever comes here.
Goes right along with these two.
That's a "j."
--one of us, all of us--I have no idea--brought whatever this thing is back here. We're not going to go out there and spread it around like Typhoid Mary. We're gonna figure it out, we're gonna bring a goddamn <u>end</u> to it.
--hell, I don't think I'm ever leaving this place again--
Nobody's going anywhere--
--before you lose your emotional lunch.
I'd strongly advise you to join us--
Be it still alive, James?
--into the <u>Black</u> <u>Hills</u> with--200- something miles from here--
The cart they brought Elly Kedward into the woods with--
Yeah. Me too.
--I saw what I saw.
The moon trying to shoot down through all these trees--can make things funky--
--I don't know.
What the fuck--??
Next time try putting on shoes--
--things got a way of finding <u>you</u> here.
How's she going to know where to--
Not the place you want to announce your arrival.
Down there in the Park.
Heather, does that look like Domini there?
You think it's possible the tree in the Parr foundation is the same one they tied Elly Kedward to?
--anywhere, anywhere, all up and live, all the time--fucking owl--
--Cotter, where can I get on-line?
--I look and look in the tree, all I ever see, he's always there watching, that stupid owl, over and over--
Same trees. They took Elly Kedward out to the same kind of trees.
Well, she got out of here <u>some</u>- how because she's not here!!
She would've had to have a key, anyway, to lock the deadbolt behind her.
Don't have one.
My room, asleep, last I checked.
I got the tape enhanced--and I managed to sleaze a photo blow-up. Jesus, he's gonna kill me when he finds out about the camera.
Where <u>is</u> it?
Still don't see it--
Whatta you got, telescopic vision?
I spend a lot of time on e-Bay. Buying, selling--sometimes buying then re-selling at substantial mark-up, sometimes just selling crap I find in the street.
Hey, hon'--this is what pays the rent and tuition.
Su casa y shit-o hole-o.
Mi casa y su casa!
Too busy eating us?
Get inside quick, they'll stop.
--Cotter: shut up.
Used to be a meat-packing plant. Slaughter on the ground floor-- carcasses schlepped up on this thing for dissection and grinding and--
Not a great idea. Especially 'cross the street.
What about night?
Hey, I got a whole editing suite in my loft--more the fucking merrier.
--coming out of the water--
--yeah, a hand or something--
What're you doing with all this shit?
Get <u>out</u> of here!
What're you, nuts?
What're you, crazy??
We should be so lucky.
Try a long walk.
No sense at all. I'm a little stressed.
Made no sense. Scared out of their minds, and the greatest stress reliever in creation right at their fingertips. Nada.
Three people: two guys, a girl-- sleeping in the same motel room, the same tent night after night.
What I never could figure about the movie?
Ask me what I don't have.
I've got the Panasonic Portable DVD player.
If you're looking at me, look elsewhere.
So where the hell am I going to sleep?
Never would've guessed.
Hadn't even opened the thing since Cub scouts.
Why does everyone here but me have have a gigantic stick up their ass?
You're not only an idiot, you're a goddamn <u>child</u>.
That's what Josh and Mike said.
I take it back--she <u>wasn't</u> an actor. She's a nutjob.
I don't believe this.
Oh, for chrissake, she was an actor.
From-the-movie-Mary-Brown, Trailer Park Bible Psycho?
Hey, Mr. Graduate Fucking Thesis here was s'posed to be driving!
You're a complete fucking idiot, aren't you?
--and unlike the first one, every second of it's gonna be true! "Blair Witch: The Real Story!"
--which'd be about ten bucks--
And let it be known--before we even get to Burkittsville--it's gonna be an eighteen thousand times better movie--for half the cost--
--fuckin' A right--
--thank you, Heather Arendt--and arend't we glad you're here--a real witch--
Maybe whatever they are, they just haven't appeared yet on her?
Why was <u>she</u> exempted, Nick?
One of the printers.
--it's less than four feet, just--
What're you nuts--
Just let it go, I've got you!
Just hold on!
All the shit that was worth anything, yes. You'd be amazed, though, what you can get free on the 'net.
I thought all your equipment got stolen.
It's Domini, it's not Domini, I don't care--all I know is <u>I'm</u> not dealing with something--<u>anything</u>-- snuffing me in my sleep. I want to do what we did in the woods-- surveillance of this whole place 24/7, with somebody monitoring those cameras every second. There's something, somebody here, I want to see 'em coming.
I think it's time to get out of here.
Chrissake: why <u>any</u> of this?
Enough to make shapes and shadows in the dark into something else.
Enough to keep sane.
How much of that stuff you guys been smoking?
No one's been in or out since you left. Would've heard the dogs.
Well, she's got to be <u>somewhere</u> here.
It's not a real "funny" time for us, okay?
Sorry, I didn't think we were making that much noise.
You wanna keep it down, she's trying to sleep.
--still go see the OB in the morning--
--whatever you want, no problem--
--great: we can watch Domini sleep for hours--or, shit, maybe if we stay at it for a couple of days, maybe a deer'll dash by!
There's four other angles, man, we haven't even--
A Cyber Entrepreneurialship.
Running a junk yard.
All I need--
Just one lock in this neighbor- hood?
First enormous brick warehouse on your right.
Let's get inside.
By day? No sweat.
I dunno it's safe to even get out of the car.
403 41st Street, kids: home.
They were making a movie--if they were going to steal anything it'd be <u>just</u> the tapes, to see if we had anything they didn't.
Cotter, I think she's right. Why would those guys go to all the trouble of stealing the camera and all this other stuff and leave the tapes?
--I dunno, I just woke up--
--what happened to the goddamn "Witch-watch??"
--and none of 'em were mine! I-am-so-fucked, I-am-so-fucked-- where the hell was everybody???
Due for a re-load and battery check. I'll get on it.
How're the cameras doing?
Look, guys, we're cold, we're tired we're <u>shook</u>--we just want to get out of here as soon as there's light. We saw something up at Coffin Rock today--
No problem, just give us 'til dawn and we're gone.
They're making "Blair Witch II," too.
Look over there.
It's a <u>serious</u> sociological study.
Either way, maybe there's a book in it, and they both make a ton of money.
<u>Now</u> you can bring the vehicle to a stop: there on the left.
Was it <u>every</u> day or just semi- weekly you got your ass kicked as a kid?
Right. And the check's in the mail.
This isn't about us.
What're you doing?
You drive, I'll handle the video, okay?
We're all going to be if you don't hit the brakes.
I'm not finished.
We're not making Blair Witch II here.
--turn the goddamn camera off!
--about the Witch--
--they're from UMass, doing some kind of fucking term paper--
--turn the camera off--
This is her equally on-the-rag boy- friend, Nick Leavitt--
--and we brought it back with us!
Someone want to tell me what's going on--
Why she kills children.
No. I don't think so.
At least you still have the tapes.
That's almost a year's worth of work! Scumbags! Oh, Jesus, Jesus....
Smells Like Teenage Spirit.
Ripped? They look like they were <u>bit</u> off.
Not planning on sleeping at all.
You planning on sleeping out there?
Rusty Parr had the right idea on child care.
--sacred and occult Scotch Tape.
Look at those marks--just like in the movie.
I thought the movie was bitchin'.
She got <u>paid</u>.
See what turns up--which I guarantee will be nothing. Some of the rest of the party are more hopeful--
We're doing dusk-till-dawn taping of all the places where there've been alleged Blair Witch "sightings" --the Parr House, Coffin Rock, Tappy Creek.
What is all this shit?
Guy who killed all the kids in the '40s.
Ruins of the Rustin Parr house.
That they'll start touching us inside our heads.
What're you afraid's going to happen?
Go to the store. When you get back, I'll try to make sense of it for you.
I think you closed the bar again. I'll have to go out.
Get some more beer.
No big deal. I'm just trying to understand.
Sure. I'm sorry.
You gonna be alright?
I know, I know--
That's why she kills children.
Slow it down, slow it down, whatever it is, we'll figure it out.
It touched me, don't you see it now?
That's the <u>reason</u>.
....I don't know.
Are you alright?
What'd you say?
No. Elly Kedward's not the problem here, I don't think. She was just a good old-fashioned white witch--
Still working on it.
What is it you thought you saw on that tape?
At least go drink it somewhere spilling it won't drive him to suicide.
Two-to-one he dusts the keyboard for fingerprints the second he gets back.
He'll never know.
Cotter'll kill you.
There is something <u>there</u>--don't ask, just trust me.
For a blur?
Motion. Stop there. Play it again.
What'd you see?
Then I have no idea.
That'd be up on your shoulder, maybe your lower back.
Hmm? I dunno. Chafing from the backpack, something.
Women miscarry all the--
And what's your excuse for being here?
The four of you really have too much spare fucking time on your hands, don't you?
Then just give me one of your explanations that all three of us'll buy.
There are <u>other</u> explanations! She is not the goddamn witch, that's insane!
Like a blueprint for disembowelment.
--the marks appear, then you disappear. Like the little Kurth boy, like Domini, as soon as they come to full bloom--and mine <u>are</u>!
It's <u>possible</u> for chrissake--
Not that I've seen--but that has no meaning--that means nothing.
Does she, goddamnit??
Does she have marks, Nick--like the ones we have, that Domini had?
What the fuck's going on here?
Not this one.
I thought all witches were benign and good.
"It's why the witch kills children."
No. We <u>all</u> go.
You're needed here--keep watching--
She's far from "fine."
Check the monitor, she's <u>fine</u>.
I should check on Anna.
You <u>know</u> what we picked up in the woods--
--or Lyme Disease or poison sumac, or God knows what-else we could have picked up in the woods.
Put 'em together that's a "k." James Kurth--
Or a blood blister--or a bruise.
Gothic rune--the letter "S."
Don't! You're making me lose my grip.
I can't do it!
We're not dealing with fucking logic here!
Domini's the only logical explanation.
--why in the world would she just fly the coop in the first place?
Why in the world would <u>she</u>--
We are being fucked with here, someone or something.
Hey, chemicals, fear, sleep- deprivation--and a round-the-clock obsession with the occult--hell've a recipe for a mind-fuck.
I dunno it's anything. It's a name Anna's mentioned--from her dreams.
That feels good. Lower--down into my neck.
There's explanations. Rational explanations for everything that's happened. We'll drive ourselves crazy if we keep obsessing on supernatural what-ifs.
--it's not a could've--there <u>was</u>, Nick. And it fucked up Anna, and did something to Domini, and it caused my father to die, and it's here <u>with</u> us in this place <u>now</u>. And I don't have one single idea in hell what's going to happen next, just that it's going to happen to one of us. And then the other. And then the other. It's going to get into our <u>brains</u>.
You think....there could've been something up in those woods that Anna--
Yeah, I know. It's...alright. We're all a little--
She's off her fucking rocker--
Jesus, you don't think I know that? You don't think I've tried? She won't fucking <u>go</u>-- she won't leave this place.
Nick, what you should do is get her back up and get her to a goddamn <u>doctor</u>.
Finally got her back to sleep.
She <u>wasn't</u> a witch.
Whatever--all I know is the persecution's going to start all over again, they keep pumping out inflammatory bullshit like this fucking movie--
They never burned witches in this country, they hanged them.
The good old days: toasting marsh- mallows over a burning witch.
--she wasn't a witch--we embrace nature, not evil--
--thank you for calling--
--his name's Von Teer! His daughter's named Domini!--
--yes, Ma'am, can I help you with anything else?--
--the Sheriff's Office--
I'm talking to Taos, New Mexico--
His daughter, for God's sake-- I need to know if he's heard from her this morning.
Could I tell him what it's regarding?
He's in a meeting. Could I have him--
Yes! I need to speak to Sheriff Von Teer.
Good morning, Sheriff's Office.
I'll tell your mother not to expect you at the funeral.
There was an accident early this morning. Another car. Your father's injuries were fatal.
What happened to my Dad??
Your mother's pastor.
Who <u>is</u> this??
She wants me to talk to you, Heather.
You don't look too good. You sleep last night?
...I mean, I don't know where he is, but he ain't dead.
What?! Did Ray tell you that?
No Meurice, it's worse than that. Something really happened, I think Marty's dead--
...Ray stole a shitload of money from Marty. Until both of 'em calm down I'm not getting involved.
Something happened with Marty and Ray--
...For you I answer the door. If you wanna stay here, that's fine. But I'm retired.
Well I do...
Jesus, I got a hangover. Want a drink?
I... I'm sorry, Meurice. I gotta talk to you... Can I come in?
Abby. What's the matter?
Any time. But you don't have to worry about a thing for a while. Marty went down to Corpus yesterday.
You're gonna keep an eye on Marty and Ray, make sure nothing happens.
Listen Meurice, you're gonna help me with a problem.
I think someone's watching.
With your gun?...
...I don't know, wasn't it you? Maybe a burglar broke in, and you found--
You broke into the bar. You wanted to get your money. You and Marty had a fight. Something happened...
What do you want to know?
...But first I gotta know what happened.
Isn't that what you want?
In the trunk.
...Where is everything?
...What's going on with you two?
...What was that?
I... I mean what're you talking about, Ray? I haven't done anything funny.
I don't know what you're talking about.
...That's what's important.
What the hell happened, Ray?
...That's the only thing they told us in the service that was worth a goddamn--Where the hell's my windbreaker?
Abby, never point a gun at anyone unless you're gonna shoot him. And when you shoot him you better make sure he's dead...
...Anyway, we got some time now. But we gotta be smart.
I cleaned it all up, but that ain't important...
Well... what happened?
What happened?--Was Meurice there?
...What do you mean?
...I just wanted to let you know that everything was all right. I took care of everything. Now all we have to do is keep our heads.
...You called me this morning.
I didn't think I could sleep. I'm surprised you could. Are you all right?
Why didn't you get into bed?
I said you're bad.
Okay, see ya... Thanks, Ray.
I don't know. I better get off now.
...You all right?
I don't know. It's early... I love you.
Ray?... What time is it?
Abby... you all right?
Huh? Oh, yeah, I guess. Mm-hmm.
...You ever get tired?
When you don't they're usually nice.
Except when he doesn't say things they're usually nasty.
Nothing. He's like you, he doesn't say much.
What'd he say?
I said, Marty, how come you're anal and I gotta go to the psychiatrist?
Well, I didn't see him anymore, I'll tell you that much.
...I don't know if you can fire a psychiatrist, exactly.
Psychiatrist said I was the healthiest person he'd ever met, so Marty fired him.
Yeah? What happened?
...He sent me to a psychiatrist to see if he could calm me down some.
I couldn't believe it either...
...Well I'll be damned.
Yeah, he told me once himself. He said to me...
I knew it. 'Cause we wouldn't have heard anything if it was him. He's real careful. Fact is, he's anal.
Door's locked. Nothing there.
I could've sworn I heard something.
...Well, I'd be okay in here--
You wouldn't be putting me out.
Well... I'm not gonna put you out of your bed...
You can sleep on the bed if you want.
Well... the couch would be all right...
If that's what you want to do, then you oughta do it. You, uh... you want the bed or the couch?
...I can find a place tomorrow, then I'll be outta your hair.
You got a girl--am I screwing something up by being here?
Uh-huh. So how do you know it was a he?
I don't know, he didn't say anything.
On the phone. Was it for you?
Who was it?
I just gotta see a guy.
Don't go to the bar, Ray. I know him, that ain't a good idea.
See a guy.
Where... where you going?
You can stay at my place, I'll drop you there.
...Drive me to a motel?
You kidding? I don't wanna leave all this, I just wanna leave Marty...
Why d'you wanna leave all this?
What was that?
I'm not surprised, the company you've been keeping the last ten years.
Christ, I'm getting bored.
I own the place.
You want to hustle me. I don't want to be hustled. It's as simple as that. Now that I've communicated, why don't you leave?
We don't seem to be communicating--
Going out with Meurice.
...So what're you doing tonight?
About ten years.
So how long have you know Meurice?
You won't have to. I just wanted to see if you knew.
You won't have to. I'll explain what a palate is.
I don't follow baseball.
Listen, I got tickets for the Oilers and the Rams next week in the Astrodome. Ever sat on the fifty yard line?
Give Debra here another drink, and give me the usual.
You've got a very sophisticated palate.
If he does come in I'm not here... What were you drinking, Debra?
Ever durned one.
And how many room got TV, Dusty?
See, Wednesday's the special on RC Cola. I don't know if I explained about the TV option. If there's a TV in the room, you got to pay the option.
Channels, we got two and six. Two don't come in so hot.
Tell him the channels, Dusty.
I reckon I can hear him. TV option, that's a dollar twenty, makes nine eighty-six plus tax.
I reckon I can hear him... ...Room rate's eight sixty-six a day plus sales tax, plus extra for the TV option.
He needs a room, Dusty.
Right. Friday night is Yankee night. Where're you from?
What night is it?
Hold it, hold it. What's tonight?
I mean, I ain't a marriage counselor--
Abby, I like you, but it's no point starting anything now.
Ray. Did you mean that, what you said before, or were you just being a gentleman?
I don't know. Motel... Abby--
...What was that back there?
I don't know... I just think maybe I'm making a mistake...
What's the matter?
...You know that car?
Well now you do.
See, I never knew that.
I told you. I like you.
I'll figure something out... How come you offered to drive me in this mess?
...What're you gonna do in Houston?
Listen, I ain't a marriage counselor. I don't know what goes on, I don't wanna know... But I like you. I always liked you...
...I don't know. Sometimes I think there's something wrong with him. Like maybe he's sick? Mentally?... Or is it maybe me, do you think?
Well, I'm only an employee, I ain't married to him.
...Figured I'd better leave before I used it on him. I don't know how you can stand him.
...He gave me a little pearl-handled .38 for out first anniversary.
What're you, a fucking marriage counselor?
I want that money. If you wanna tell me something, fine--
...You get a refund though, if you tell me who else she's been sluicing.
You owe me for two weeks.
Then what'd you come here for?
Fine. Suit yourself. ...Having a good time?
Well... if you're not gonna fire me I might as well quit.
I don't particularly want to talk to you.
Am I fired? You wanna hit me? What?
Nah, I trust ya.
...Count it if you want.
Then you shouldn't have done it. Can't have it both ways.
...it's too damn risky.
I must've gone money simple. This kind of murder...
...I just made a call about that. It'll look fine.
Nobody knows you hired me?
Something I got to ask you, Marty. I've been very very careful. Have you been very very careful?
Jesus, I don't believe it...
It's taken care of. The less you know about it the better.
...What did you do with the bodies?
So it would seem.
Got something to show me first?
Just the ten thousand'll be fine.
Listen, what is it? Is it done?
...What kind of fish?
Ya catch any fish?
Ya catch any fish?
Yeah. Is it...
Go down to Corpus for a few days. Get yourself noticed. I'll give you a call when it's done... You just find a way to cover that money.
I want you to go fishing.
...There's a big--
The money. Yeah. That's a right smart of money...
For the money.
I'm supposed to do a murder--two murders--and just trust you not to go simple on me and do something stupid. I mean real stupid. Now why should I trust you?
I didn't say that. All I said was you're an idiot. Hell, you been thinking about it so much it's driving you simple.
So, uh... this wouldn't interest you.
You're an idiot.
What do you think?
I didn't say that. Well?
You want me to kill 'em.
Listen, I'm not--this isn't a joke here.
...Gee, I'm sorry to hear that. Can you tell me what you want me to do or is it a secret?
Yeah? Well how irritated are you?
It's, uh... it's in reference to that gentleman and my wife. The more I think about it the more irritated I get.
If the pay's right I'll do it.
It's not strictly legal.
...Well, if the pay's right and it's legal I'll do it.
Got a job for you.
...That's the test, ain't it? Test of true love--
Yeah, don't come by here any more. If I need you again I know which rock to turn over.
No. It just made them feel better.
Now that don't make much sense.
Most of the night...
How long did you watch her?
Well, I don't know... Call it a fringe benefit.
You called me, I knew they were there, so what do I need these for?
...Just doin' my job.
What do you mean...
What did you take these for?
We get a lot of assholes in here, Marty.
...I don't want that asshole near my money. I don't even want him in the bar.
Kind of a bleak point of view there, isn't it Marty?
No. I think I'll stay right here in hell.
...I thought you were dead. Going home?
Where? ...I'm very careful about that.
The point is we don't serve niggers here.
What's the point?
That's not the point.
Jack Daniels. Don't worry, I'm paying for it.
Deuce in the corner needs help.
Don't throw that out.
Pour that back.
You said the usual--
I don't know, didn't he call?
How would I know?
No, he's off tonight. Where was he last night?
Has Ray come in yet?
Yeah, I know. Pour 'em short.
...and Abby. Maybe. But as far as I'm concerned that only leaves one fucking possibility.
You shouldn't have taken the money...
No, you do, cowboy. You been to the bar?
Got a problem, Meurice?
Not here tonight. Wasn't here last night. He's especially not back in his office.
Is Marty here?
Wasn't too busy. You missed a good one, though. This white guy walks in about one o'clock, asks if we have a discount for alcoholics... I tell him to get lost, but Marty's sitting here listening and I can tell he's thinking that maybe it ain't such a bad idea...
Meurice. Sorry I didn't show last night.
Tuesday night is ladies' night. All your drinks are free.
Tuesday is ladies' night.
What day is it today, Angie?
Yeah, well, I may be getting in over my head here, I mean you're the geologist, but my theory for what it's worth, you got all these volcanoes and each time one pops it's the equivalent of what, twenty, thirty megatons of TNT? Enough to light Las Vegas for how long? How many years? Course, I'm no mathematician but--
You we telling me about the Ring of Fire.
Where was I?
Aunt Barbara. I love you, but you're not gonna get it.
Sometimes it helps to talk things over. for instance, many marriages are saved by.
I don't want to talk about it. Everything's okay now. I don't want to talk about it.
Well, I haven't seen any. I wouldn't worry about it. Look. I better go.
I've seen a few.
Oh yeah?. Have you seen any?
Okay honey. that sounds nice. Jeffrey. I think you've got termites in the house.
Will you tell Mom when she gets home from the hospital that I've gone to dinner at Sandy Williams' house?
I'm not sick.
Doctor Gynde. my whole family's sick. What's going on?
No. I'm just going to walk around the neighborhood. Don't worry.
Jeffrey. you're not going down by Lincoln, are you?
Aunt Barbara. I'll try not to get depressed.
I think it's important not to get depressed. Depression is a terrible thing. They say it can bring on illness.
Yeah. How's Dad?
You look good, Jeffrey. Did you have a nice flight?
I sent a trunk home yesterday. This is all I have.
Right Ben. LET'S GO FUCK. I'll fuck anything that moves.
See you Tuesday, Frank.
EXCUSE US por favor! Hey. let Tits see her kid.
Frank, I have something for you. Excuse us everyone.
If you like Frank. Here's to your fuck. cheers.
Shit. let's drink to something else. let's drink to fuckin'. Say here's to your fuck Frank.
To your health, Frank.
Darling, where are the glasses?. Oh. here they are.
Fuckin' good, real fuckin' good. You know this little tid bit, Dorothy, and this thing, here, is a neighbor. What the shit we're doin' with a neighbor, I don't know. goddam!!! This is the suavest guy I know. look at you. You're one beautiful fucker, Ben. I love this jacket and that cigarette holder of yours. shit, that is too fuckin' much. Where's those glasses. this beer's gonna get too warm. I can't stand fuckin' warm beer. it makes me puke.
Fine Frank. Fine. How are you?
Shit Ben! How the shit are ya?
Certainly Frank. Darling, get some glasses. We'll have some beer with Frank. Won't you sit down?
Suave. goddam are you suave, you fucker. You want some beer?
Fine. Welcome. Come sit down.
Hey, I brought some friends. and some beer.
Frank. Come in.
Oh my God. Is her son OK?
Does Dorothy know her husband is dead?
Because of your information I alerted internal affairs to check out Detective Gordon. I had to keep on with him as if nothing was different. He slipped off on his own when he found out we were going to raid Frank's place.
We're ten minutes away and moving as fast as we can.
Yes it's me!!! Frank is on his way up to Dorothy's apartment. Oh no. Frank has a radio and is hearing everything we say!! Detective Williams. hurry. I'm in the apartment. hurry. I'm hiding in the back bedroom.
Detective Williams here. Is that you, Jeffrey?
Detective Williams!! Detective Williams!!
For now. Alright. you better be. And Sandy better not be involved with this, I can tell you. Be prepared to come in for further interrogation on this later.
You're all through with this now?
Only you. and the photo lab.
Who knows you have these?
No. not at all.
Is Sandy part of this?
I can't tell you the whole story. I. I took it upon myself. I can't say more.
Well now Jeffrey, how did you come to get so involved?
I have no hard proof of any of this. Her address is also on the photos. I think these people are involved with drugs. and murder. I think Frank is killing drug dealers and. . and somehow Frank is getting all their drugs. I had to tell you I got slightly more involved in this than you wanted me to, but it's over now for sure. .I had to tell you about these things in case it could help.
And that man came out with a third man - this well-dressed guy. here's the photo. I think a girl named Dorothy Vallens is in trouble with these people. I think Frank has taken her husband and her son.
Okay. I gotta tell you. I've. discovered some things. .Anyway I have to show you some pictures and tell you some things about them. The first picture is this.
Okay. come on in. Looks like you had a bad face lift.
Hi. Hi Sandy. I'm sorry to bother you, but I've got to talk to you.
Jeffrey! Come on in.
It's blue. blue velvet.
What color is it?
Blue. It's Blue Velvet.
What is this? What color is it?
Yeah. I get it.
I won't let the bastards get me up against the wall. It's an act of defiance.
Why do you do it?
Yes I have - so bad I wouldn't poison your mind by telling you.
I guess you've seen some bad things.
Is that why you say it's horrible?
The criminals are winning.
Anything you can tell me?
These are beautiful. How's the case coming?
If you want to come up a minute, I'll show you some pictures.
And it's horrible too. I'm sorry Jeffrey. That's the way it has to be. Anyway. I'm sure you do understand.
It must be great.
I was the same way when I was you age. I guess that's what got me into this business.
I understand. I'm just real curious like you said.
Detective Williams here. yeah. Tell him to go to Sergeant Milton. yeah, copy. Well, Jeffrey, you found something which is very interesting to us. Very interesting. I know you must be curious to know more. But. I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you not only not to tell anyone about your find, but also not to ask more about the case. One day. when it's all sewed up, I'll let you know all the details. Right now, though. I can't.
Excuse me, Mrs. Williams.
Come into the study a minute.
Come on. I'll drive you home. It's on my way.
Got it. Thanks for letting me in on as much as you did.
By the way, Jeffrey, this story isn't going to the press and I'm going to ask you to consider all you've heard strictly confidential. Do not discuss this business with anyone, but me, or other police personnel. Got it?
Yep, that's right. Let's take a look at it.
Yeah. I've got it here in this bag. I thought I should bring it to you.
You did? A human ear?
He's alright, I guess. I hope. They're doing tests, that's why I'm home from school. I was over at the hospital this morning and I was going home and in the field behind our neighborhood. there behind Vista, I found an ear.
Sure I do. I understand he's in the hospital. How is he?
My name is Jeffrey Beaumont - I live near you. I believe you know my father, Tom Beaumont - Beaumont's Hardware Store?
Are you Detective Williams?
Shut up. Gimme your lipstick. . Hey, pretty, pretty.
Frank. he didn't mean it. Leave him alone. come on. He didn't mean it.
If you want to.
Can I feel 'em?
Those are my breasts.
Don't say PLEASE, Fuckhead. WHAT ARE THESE?
Come on, Frank. Let's go. Please.
Look at these. What are these?
Then, shut up!
You want to see him too, right?
Hey. Tits. I'm taking your neighbor to the country. maybe something for you too.
Where are we going, Frank?
From the neighborhood? Shut the fuck up. You like telephones? Huh?. You wanta go for a ride?
He's a friend. from the neighborhood. we were just talking.
Who's this fuck?
Baby wants to fuck.
. mommy's here.
. my bourbon.
Shut up. It's daddy. shithead.
Okay, I'm goin'. You'll see. I'll get you.
No way. get out. I'm gonna tell Frank. I'm gonna tell him what you said.
He's the reformed dealer though who wanted to turn himself in. he's the one that caused Frank to come and Frank's fucking us real good. I just feel so horny. I'm supposed to be here watching you why can't I be here fucking you. Listen. I know his cock's the size of a pin - let me give you the real thing. let me wet my whistle, baby.
Oh he forced you, huh?
Yeah, maybe so. Frank's got me. and you. and really it's all thanks to Don. isn't it. remember that. Your husband was the one who started fucking my mind with drugs.
'Cause he's comin' back, that's what for. Frank's got you really loaded tonight.
He's comin' back?. What for?
Alright, suit yourself.
Yeah. but get outta here. He's comin' back.
Hold me. I'M FALLING!
I promise, Dorothy. I promise.
HELP HIM!! Promise me you'll help him!
Don?. Where is he?
Hold me, Don.
Don. help him. HELP HIM!! DONNY!!!!
They hurt his head.
Shh. I'll tell you.
My secret lover.
It's okay. it's okay.
Where have you been? Oh God. they hurt him, Jeffrey. Jeffrey, Jeffrey, Jeffrey, hold me. HOLD ME. Oh God.
Oh God, Jeffrey. is that you? Oh God.
Yeah, it's me.
No. Hi baby.
You look beautiful to me.
I'm getting a little bit fat. I hate that.
Okay. soon? Do you think I'm too fat?
I'll call you.
I think I better go.
I want you to stay with me.
I guess I should go.
No. not really. but also because I really want you to be alright.
Why are you here? Hmmmmmmmm!!!! Ok.
I did. are you?
You called me Jeffrey.
If I die, then they'll be free. It's getting late, isn't it? I can tell. it's a cold feeling when it's late. It's warm then it gets cold. Jeffrey. I feel it getting cold.
There's so much I want to tell you. I'm in so much darkness though with things moving. there is darkness sucking me. It's kissing me and darkness is entering me. in every hole. It's opening me to a death.
I'm glad you do.
Men are crazy. then they put their craziness into me. then it makes me crazy. then they aren't so crazy for awhile. then they put their craziness in me again. . it's burning me. but I love you. I do, I do. Did you know that? Did you know that I love you?
There's no disease, I can tell you.
You put your disease in me. your semen. it's hot and full of disease.
Shhhhhh. Now I have your disease.
I didn't mean to hurt you.
No. it's not Don.
I love you Don with all my heart.
Just get outta my bed.
Wait a minute. Wait. Whatiya want? For cryin' out loud!
And sometimes you think you don't?! Well, get away then!
Sometimes I think I do.
I asked first.
Do you love me?
Do you love me?
Look, snap out of it, will ya?
What if Frank came over here and found us?
Come on Dorothy.
Does that scare you?
Okay. I know you've been scared. now you want to scare someone.
Frank would open you.
That wouldn't be too good, would it?
What if I told Frank that you opened me?
You like to open me. don't you?
No. I told you. I don't want to hurt you. I want to help you. I think I know some of what is happening to you. . Dorothy? Frank has your husband and son. Dorothy? Doesn't he? You have to do something Dorothy. go to the police.
I want you to hurt me.
What do you want?
Do you want to do bad things? Anything. anything.
Are you a bad boy?
I'm doing it.
What do you want to do?
Sure I do.
Do you like my body?
I'm not crazy. I know the difference between right and wrong.
I sure don't hate you.
No. how could he?. Don't go. You think I'm crazy, don't you? I want you to stay. . don't hate me.
Frank is coming?
I'm sorry .maybe I better go Dorothy.
It used to make me laugh .but.
Please. please stay.
No. I should go.
. or do you just want me? I'm going to let you enter me now.
Who are you? Maybe I'll need to. you like me, huh?
I came back to help you. You said do I let girls sneak into my house. You know where I live. if you need to. come to where I live. O.K.?
Why are you so interested? Why do you keep asking me?
No. But you're in very big trouble.
Don?. Are you in with them?
Who is Don?
No. Please, Dorothy. Why are you in so much trouble?
Take it easy. What's goin' on anyway?. Why are you in so much trouble?
I can't. I can't. You think you know so much.
There you go again. stop saying that. You can make it.
Oh God. Don!!! Why can't I just die.
Who's it, you mean.
Nice guy. Who's he?
I'm alright. go hide. This won't take long. Be quiet.
Frank? .can you stand up?
. same here.
I liked being with you last night.
That's not crazy. I like you too.
I looked for you in my closet tonight. It's crazy, I don't know where you came from but. I like you.
. I. uh.
Yeah. hurry up though.
Hi. can I come in?
It's a secret so don't tell anyone. Some day I'll show you where. I've gotta go to sleep now.
Don't say that.
Did I say that?. I didn't mean it. or did I? Sometimes I think it would be fun. Go ahead, you better leave now. I can't open myself to you now. I'll tell you a little secret. I want to die.
Then don't talk about killing.
Go then. I can't let you put it in me now but I want you. I like you.
Please don't talk like that. You're upset. I'm not helping you. I'm sorry for what I did. I better go.
Maybe you don't know. I know you though. You're Jeffrey Beaumont and I know where you live and I know ways to get you and I know ways to kill you.
No. What is happening?
Do you know?
Next Christmas. Is he Santa Claus who has left a present for Dorothy? What was it? An ear? Another ear?!! What was it?
I made it go down the toilet.
You can be my special friend and come and put that in me.
Yes, I like you.
Do you like me?
No. please. I won't.
You can hit me, if you want to.
You can kiss them if you want. Fell them . They're getting hard.
See my nipples?
See my breasts? . See?
Do you like the way I feel?
It's okay. It's okay.
Thank you. honey.
Don. Hold me. I'm scared. Hold me. Please.
I'll go then.
Sure I'm alright.
Nothing. Are you alright?
Don't. I don't like that. What do you want?
Lie down on the bed.
Do you like talk like that?
Do you like that?
What do you want?
I . I don't know.
What do you want from me?
Look. I'm sorry. Just let me leave.
NO, you come on. Take off your pants. I want to see you.
No. Come on.
How'd you like it if someone sneaked into your house and watched you. Get undressed. I want to see you.
Never before this.
How many times have you sneaked into girls' apartments and watched them undress?
Then you got undressed.
That's right. That's what I said. You have a good memory. Then what?
You said hello. to Frank. You wanted to talk to someone?. Don?. and little Donny. You said something about Momma loves you. and something about a Meadow Lane. something in an hour. I don't remember any more.
The phone. What did you hear on the phone . Tell me. Word for word.
. I saw you come in, talk on the phone. get undressed.
Tell me what you saw tonight. TELL ME.
I sprayed your apartment. I took your key. I really didn't mean to do anything but see you.
An experiment? Hey, I've seen you before.
I was. an experiment. Just to see if I could do it.
Shit. You better tell me something.
What? Are you kidding me? Who sent you here?
I wanted to see you.
You tell me!! Let me see that wallet. Jeffrey Beaumont. What're you doing in my apartment, Jeffrey Beaumont?
Jeffrey. Jeffrey what?
GET OUT OF THERE!! GET OUT!! Put your hands up, on your head. GO ON!! Get down on your knees - DO IT!! What are you doing? Who are you? What's your name?. WHAT'S YOUR NAME?
That oughta do it.
Oh yeah, that's good.
Nope. it's new stuff. no smell.
Oh God, that stuff stinks.
Pest control. gotta do your apartment.
Yes? What is it?
Yeah. I sure know that. Yeah, but how many more are out there?
We're going to leave that up to Detective Williams. I'll tell you though. you're okay. you shot a real son of a bitch.
Yeah. I guess I did. What's going to happen to me?
You seemed to see some very interesting things on your little escapade with Dorothy Vallens.
He became obsessed with her. She hated him. He had to have her. He kidnapped them to control her. to make her do things. Then she wanted to commit suicide so he started cutting off ears as a warning to her to stay alive. I'm not kidding. Frank loved blue. blue velvet. He had to have Dorothy cause her whole life was blue.
We're looking for him. In your opinion, why did Frank kidnap Dorothy's son and husband?
I'll send you straight to hell, Fuck!
Don't be a good neighbor to her or I'm gonna send you a love letter. straight from my heart, fucker. You know what a love letter is? It's a bullet. straight from my gun, fucker. Once you get a love letter from me, you're fucked forever. Understand, Fuck?
Don't look at me, Fuck. I shoot when I see the whites of the eyes. You like me?.
What are you lookin' at?
Let's take our neighbor out. Let him fuckin' walk back.
Hey? . You like to walk.
Do you see, Ben?. I can make him do anything I fuckin' please.
Here's to Ben.
Hey neighbor. Here's to Ben.
FUCK THAT SHIT. PABST BLUE RIBBON!!!
A ride?. Hell, that's a good idea. okay, let's go. Hey, let's go.
On a ride.
I don't want to go.
No thanks. what does that mean?
Good, let's drink up.
There ya go.
No, I want ya to fuck it. Shit, yes. pour the fuckin' beer.
Right here Frank. You want me to pour it?
Raymond! Where's the fuckin' beer?
What kinda beer do you like?
Come on. I wancha to meet a frienda mine. Raymond, get enough beer for Ben too.
Yeah. I just saw him outside. Maybe the robins are here.
Yes I'm going. I have to. I love you. I will, believe me.
Please get to your father and send him and the police to Dorothy's apartment right away. Be sure your father comes. Something is happening over there. They're hurting someone. the guy she loves. Tell them to hurry. I'm going over right now.
I should go with her, Sandy.
Right. Watch out for Mike, there.
OK. Let's get her over to your father's.
Probably not. no. Why?
No. Is Detective Gordon going to be at your house?
Take her to my house. My dad can get an ambulance faster than anyone. Do you have anything to put around her?
Dorothy! ... Dorothy!
Sandy. this guy is a killer!! I promise you.
My father has a gun at home.
Oh my God. What's wrong?
You want to dance?
Just a minute.
Let's wait for some slow one.
Really. you want to dance with someone else?
I can't dance fast.
You want to dance?
I like that idea. that's a real good idea.
Thank you. Whatiya say we just enjoy the evening?
... You look beautiful.
I'd rather not talk about it. I'll tell you about it sometime.
Just go over to Gelford and up to Vista. It's not far. Can you tell me any more about what you learned?
It's good to see you.
Nothing. really! It's good to see you.
What was that all about?
Just some fatherly advice.
What is it?
I should never had gotten you going on this. Yes Jeffrey. Friday's on!
You didn't tell him about me?
Yeah. I think so. I just had to tell him some of what I knew. Is Friday still on?
Jeffrey. are they important things? Well forget me - you have to tell him. Jeffrey. I mean it.
Great. Hey. I've got a bit of a problem. I know some things. that could help your father but you might get into trouble.
Yes. is that so surprising?. Yeah I worry. a lot. I got you into this.
You worry about me really?
Yeah. you're a mystery. I like you. very much.
You like mysteries that much?
I'm seeing something that was always hidden. I'm involved in a mystery. I'm learning. and it's all secret.
I can't believe what you are finding out. Are you going to continue with this. Are you going back to her apartment?
Then these guys told me the police will find a huge amount of drugs inside the dead man's place.
Number two. I saw the Yellow Man come out. This time with a well-dressed man with an alligator briefcase. They drove down this factory building and stood on a staircase looking at something in the distance. Number three. now get this. In the distance was a murder. a drug dealer shot to death and a woman with her legs broken.
Maybe. But I think the Yellow Man is on drugs. I think Frank supplies him.
Nothing really, but it's interesting. they know each other. they seem to like each other.
Number one. I saw the Yellow Man go into Frank's building, laughing with Frank. Now. the only trouble is. what does this prove?
That's what makes it so good. You wanta hear what I saw today?
You know, that cheese is practically all chemicals.
Yeah, but. I don't think it's going to do much good. Let's go. I'll try to talk to him later.
You want to go talk to him?
What am I going to do?
I'm really sorry.
You were late.
See ya tomorrow.
You better not, Jeffrey.
Can I give you a kiss good night?
Okay. be careful.
I will. I'll pick you up on the same corner at three thirty-five, okay?
No, silly - I'm still in school you know. but I'll meet you after school and you can tell me what you've learned. You better be careful, Jeffrey.
I guess so. you want to help me watch Frank?. I'm going to stake out Frank's place tomorrow. with a camera.
So are you. I mean you're a neat guy. We better get back.
Yeah I guess so. You're a neat girl.
I don't know. I had a dream. in fact. the night I met you. . in the dream the world was dark because there weren't any robins. you know, birds. robins stood for love. and all of a sudden thousands of robins flew down and brought this blinding light of love. and it felt like that love would be the only thing that would make any difference. I guess. until the robins come there is trouble.
Why are there people like Frank. Why is there so much trouble in this world.?
You're sure right. It is a strange world.
That's what I thought.
Who, me? Why should it?
That doesn't bother you, does it?
Yeah. I mean. a little, . you know.
Did you see her undressed?
Twice. without her sensing anything?
. Actually. I've been in twice.
You saw a lot in one night.
I don't see how I can. and I can't prove any of this. I got all this information illegally. also it could get you in trouble.
Wow. Should you tell my father?
. OK. It's a strange world, Sandy. this is what I have found out. What I think I have found out. Dorothy Vallens is married to a man named Don. they have a son. I think the son and the husband have been kidnapped by a man named Frank who has now cut off both of Don's ears. I think he is holding them to make her do things for him. I think she wants to die. the ears were for her a warning to stay alive. there is another man involved. I call him the "yellow man". you saw his back the other day in the hall at her door. I don't know what he does but I think he's on drugs supplied by Frank. Frank is a very dangerous man.
You want to tell me about it?
No way. I'm about to blow up.
You want a Dairy Queen?
It's okay. Don't worry about it.
I'm sorry, I didn't.
He got a little jealous.
What's with Mike?
Well. Maybe we should discuss this somewhere else. you know what I mean?
What did you see?
Well. I've found out some things. nothing really for certain. There are some strange people involved.
Well, how did it go?. What happened?
Okay, okay. Bye.
That's for me to know and for you to find out. I'll see you. I mean call you. okay?
I don't know if you're a detective or a pervert.
I'll honk four times so you'll hear it and know she's on her way up. Okay?
Are you sure?
I'm going to wait here until she comes.
Call tomorrow. It's okay. Good luck. I hope you can sneak out okay. You're going to wait until she's asleep?
Look. it can wait till Sunday.
Okay. yeah, call.
Oh, okay. can I call?
I. I don't want to see you tomorrow. Mike's coming over.
I'm going in, Sandy. I'll see you tomorrow and tell you how it went.
. I wish you wouldn't do this. It doesn't make any sense. Let's go somewhere and have some coffee.
Could you wait a little while. this key may not fit.
Leave it in the front of your house for me. okay?
It'll be okay. I don't think you should wait out here though. I think you should go home. Can you drive this car?
It's crazy and dangerous. My God. I shouldn't have told you.
Jeffrey, I don't think you ought to do it.
I'll drink to that.
Here's to. an interesting experience.
That sounds good.
I'd like an ice-cold Heineken.
This is not my usual Friday night!
Then we'll drive back to her apartment and I will plant myself there.
First of all, we're going to the Slow Club to see Dorothy Vallens. We'll watch her for awhile. I'd like to hear her sing anyway, and then also we'll know she is there and not in her apartment.
What's the plan.
Okay. You better get out before someone sees us.
Yeah, but don't pick me up. my father may think it's strange. I'll walk over to your house. I'll be there at eight o'clock.
Great. I'll pick you up around eight o'clock. Is that good?
I already know. The "Slow Club." It's on Route 7.
First of all, we'll have a nice dinner. Try to find out where Dorothy sings.
I'll tell Mike I'm sick. There's a game tonight anyway and he'll never miss me. Afterwards he can go out with the guys. Just so the record is kept straight though, I love Mike. What do want me to do?
I don't want you to get involved, really, I mean, I do, but if something went wrong I mean, like you said, they may be involved in murder.
You really want to do this, don't you?
Well, it's Friday night and you're a beautiful girl. I guess you would have a date. that does that.
Yes. I do.
You didn't goof it up, but. you still owe me one. I want to sneak in tonight. It's Friday. do you have a date tonight?
I owe you. since I goofed up this one.
Pretty clever. Are you game for more?
So. what's next?
Yeah, if it opens the door.
I didn't get a good look at him either, but he sure looked at me. I didn't have time to get a window, but I found this key. Pretty nifty, huh?
No. I only saw his back. He went down another stairwell at the end of the hall.
Yes and no. Did you recognize him?
I was just about to go to the door, when that man did my job for me. Was it alright?
Yeah. let's get outta here. What happened?
Are you alright?
Alright. Good luck, yourself.
Thanks. Dorothy Vallens. Okay. good luck . three minutes, no sooner.
Oh bother. Dorothy Vallens, Seventh Floor. Look on the mailbox for her number, bright boy.
Okay, I'm going ahead. Wait a minute, what's her name?
Now. we'll walk over so there's no license plates and you give me at least three minutes. I can stall if it's more, but I need time to find a good window .alright?
You've got a point there.
Let's just try the first part. If that goes well, we'll see about the rest. No one will suspect us, because no one would believe two people like us would be crazy enough to do something like this.
I don't know. it sounds like a good daydream, . but actually doing it is too weird. too dangerous.
You will be a Jehovah's Witness. I have a few "Awake" magazines for you. You don't have to keep her very long. a few seconds is all I'll need. Whatiya think?
What will I say when she comes to the door?
Right out in the car I happen to have some old overalls and a bug spraying rig. I will go to her apartment and be the pest control man. I will spray her apartment. After a few minutes you will knock on her door, drawing her attention away from me and I will then jimmy a window.
Now, how are you going to do that?
Alright. the first thing is to get into her apartment and open a window that I could crawl into later.
It wouldn't hurt to hear the plan, I guess.
Settle down. I have a plan which I think will work. There is very little for you to do, but I do need your help. .Aren't you curious about my plan?
You said it was a strange world. and you're the strangest part of it. Are you crazy.she is possibly involved in murder. This gives me the creeps.
There are opportunities in life for gaining knowledge and experience. sometimes, in some cases. it's necessary to take a risk. I got to thinking. I'll bet a person could learn a lot by getting into that woman's apartment. you know. sneak in and hide and observe.
Alright, now tell me. What is it?
Ooooo, you are smart. Just don't get too smart.
I guess Mike's got some sort of sports practice in the afternoon.
I'm here, aren't I?
I don't want to cause any trouble.
Just a minute. pull over and wait a minute.
I'd like to talk to you about something.
I don't know.
You hungry or thirsty, or both?
Yeah. Good bye.
I guess so. Like you said. It's a strange world.
Thanks for the tour. It was nice talking to you.
I've gotta go in.
I don't know. he moved away.
What happened to him?
It's not bad. but it's bad enough. it's a lot worse for my father. I used to know a kid who lived there and who had the biggest tongue in the world.
Still, it must be kinda rough.
I have to help out in my father's hardware store. they're giving me sort of my own hours for a while. which is nice.
Yeah, I guess so. What are you going to do now that you're home?
You really do hear a lot, don't you?
My father is watching the businessman. The businessman had a partner who disappeared. left his whole business and family, his wife and two kids. They think he's been murdered.
Oh yeah. What about those other people? . Anything?
I don't know. like I said, she's not my father's case.
Did they find out anything when they questioned her?
I don't know. you're not supposed to see them. They're supposed to see you.
Where are they?
That's the building. She lives on the Seventh Floor. Don't stop to look long . the police are watching.
Not really, why? You want to see the building?. Come on, I'll show you.
I guess you have to get back home soon?
Yeah. It's close by. that's what's creepy. They've had her under surveillance for a couple of months, except I don't know what they've found out because my father isn't in charge of her.
It's a strange world isn't it? Do you know what building the woman lives in?
The ear is from a missing person maybe?
No. this has been going on for some time . several months. About six months ago some parts of bodies were found down by the river. They were from people who were reported missing. They never found one complete body. only parts.
Were all these people questioned this afternoon?
There were at least three, maybe four. But a name that keeps coming up is this woman who lives in an apartment building very close to your house and also close to the field where you found the ear. There's also a business man over by the Franklin factory district that was questioned. and a musician. and some others.
Do you know who was brought in for questioning?
I don't really know much but bits and pieces . I hear things. My room is right above my father's office. The ear. there's no corpse in the morgue missing an ear, and it did come off a living person. That's direct from the Coroner's Office. The person is unknown. There are a couple of cases I get mixed up on, but I think there are some people who were brought in for questioning on a murder case that could have something to do with the ear. I heard some of the same names.
Come on. you brought it up. Do you know anything?
Didn't my father tell you not to talk about it?
What do you know about the ear?. anything?
That's too bad.
I'm home from school. My father's in the hospital.
Yeah. What are you doing now?
What else is new?. right?
How is Central these days?
No. You're not bothering me. You a senior?
Am I bothering you?
Yeah I did. treasurer. Shouldn't you be studying or something.
You were pretty popular. Didn't you run for some office?
I just know, that's all. I remember you from Central.
Yeah, how did you know?
Good deal Dad.
Hey Jeff. I'm feelin' so much better.
How ya doin' Dad?
It's good to see you, Dad.
Good to see you, son.
Are you feeling okay?
Looks like they've got you strapped in pretty good.
You can't just stay out half the night and carry on, Jeffrey. There's got to be some order, Jeffrey. I thought it would have been nice to call your father when you got home but now it is much too late.
Nothing. I'm fine.
Is something wrong? What's happened to your face?
God. you scared me.
Of course, Jeffrey.
Can I use the car tonight?
No, I'm just gonna walk around.
Do you want the car?
I'm going out for awhile.
.Jeffrey!. Nobody wanted you to leave school and go to work in the store. maybe going back to school will be an option one day. I hope so.
Thanks a lot, Mom.
It would be too much for him. So please let him think as he does, that you're home just to see him.
He doesn't know you're out of school. He thinks it's a vacation for you.
Jeffrey, when you see your father.
I've made arrangements with Dr. Gynde for 10:30. But Jeffrey, you'll have to walk over; I need the car this morning.
What time are visiting hours?
Be right down.
Jeffrey, breakfast is ready.
This is it.
Where's all your things, Jeffrey?
Jeffrey. honey. Your father's condition is serious. It's going to cost so much. We just won't have the money to keep you in school. I'm telling you this now, so that you can get your things together and check out of school, honey, or whatever you have to do. it'll save you another trip back. You're going to have to work at the store.
For good?. I can't. Mom. Not right in the middle of the term.
I mean, for good, Jeffrey.
Later Mike. I gotta take care of someone who's hurt here, in case you haven't noticed.
Hey, you ivy league shit. COME HERE!
Well, most guys don't. I mean that's the point. You all mind if I take my vitamins?
Yeah, well I never wanted to get slaughtered much.
I mean. some guys play anyway but they usually get slaughtered.
No. you're right.
I mean, you don't exactly have the build for a football. I mean. no offense.
Looks like you'd make a good runner.
I'll get a coat for her.
Sandy? ...Sandy, please.
Nice of you to offer, Jeffrey, but certainly not. just relax and enjoy your coffee. I'm sure Sandy will be back soon.
Sure thing. please don't worry about me. Can I help you with the dishes?
Please excuse me a moment, Jeffrey, and I'll get to the dishes.
Anyone else?. Alright Jeffrey, just a minute.
That sounds great!
Here you are. Would anyone like coffee?
Say "goodnight" to Sandy.
Oh, you're welcome. Nice to finally meet you, Jeffrey.
Mrs. Williams? Thanks for the cake.
He comes over to study.
It's a real good chocolate cake. Duncan Hines' devil's food. real good.
No. No thank you.
Would you like a piece of cake?
Yeah, I know.
I was sorry to hear about your father. I know your mother from church. It's such a shame.
Really, he'll be home soon, would you like a cup of coffee?
I just wanted to ask him a few questions, that's all. Maybe I better go.
Oh, yes, Jeffrey. Come in. He'll be back any minute now. You're welcome to wait. Is it urgent?
Hello. uh. my name is Jeffrey Beaumont. Is Detective Williams in?
... Stop it Mike.
Hey come here, you stole my girl, you bastard. I'm gonna kick your ass, right in front of your stupid house.
Come on out a minute, okay?
Sure. just a sec. Excuse me.
Sandy?. Could I talk to you a minute?
Mike. We don't have to watch it. Come on.
I don't know why we have to watch T.V.
You can change it if you want to.
What are watchin' this junk for?
Yeah, nice meetin' yuh.
Mike's gotta go. Nice to meet you.
What plane? We going someplace? Where we headed? You have your money. It's all there. What the fuck is going on?
On the plane.
Where do you guys want to count?
Greetings, Mr. George.
I've been holding this shit for him for three weeks. You tell Diego I don't appreciate it. You tell him I want my money by Friday. Can you do that?
Oh, I see. George. Well, that explains everything. Open your mouth, George.
I don't know. He sent me. I'm George.
QUIET! Callate! Where's Diego?
This is a one time thing, Gusto. One and I'm out. Give me a good price for old time's sake. What do you think?
Ha ha. That's too much, Georgie. Those days are over. The rate is one-thousand dollars. Inflation, you know?
Five-thousand per kilo.
Alright. I'll ask Pablo, tell him it's for you. I don't think there will be a problem.
No. I have the space. I figured it out. This is what I want to do.
Three-hundred kilos is a very big load, Georgie. Why don't we start small?
A toast! To Mister George Jung. Mr. I 95, north and south. My brother-in-law. Happy birthday!
No honey, I'm alright.
That's impossible. We can't be up and running. Who's distributing?
Yes. Jack Stevens is already a very busy man. Along with many others. You shouldn't stay away so long.
The word is that soon he is to be king of the middle empire. He is doing multiple runs right now and using the island as a jump-off point.
Motherfucker works fast.
Let us walk. From what I understand, Diego has bought a hundred and sixty acres, a marina, a hotel, and an airstrip.
Norman Cay is not a person. He is an island, George. In the Bahamas. From what they say, it is free and it's Diego's new home.
My pleasure, Augusto. Diego has told me much about you.
Pleased to meet you finally, George. I am Augusto Oliveras.
Dejen la maricada pues! No jodan! Nadie va a matar a nadie! George, debemos hablarle al Patron, es la unica manera, mano.
Mama, vos sos bien antigua. Como lo va a matar con un picahielo. Eso era en su tiempo, estamos casi ya en los ochenta. El lo va a meter un tiro, lo va a volar, le va a hechar un hijueputa carro encima.
Blanca, por favor.
Que queres decir. Que es lo que el va hacer? Pues, no va hacer nada.
Que va hacer?
I don't know. Drunk somewhere. Try the bar. And if you find her, tell her to come, it's almost midnight.
Thanks. I am. Where's Martha?
I'm so glad you two could make it. Mirtha, look at you. So beautiful. You look like you're about to burst.
Which brings me to rule number three: which says, fuck rules one and two, skip bail and take off.
George, I went to the doctor. I don't have two years.
What? You're not going to wait for me?
Two years. George, I can't wait that long.
Lawyer says he can plead it down to five years. I'll serve two.
What, and miss all the fun? C'mon, not a chance. So, what's the verdict?
Baby, you didn't have to come.
Relax, baby. We're going to wind up like us.
Promise me that we'll never be like them. I don't want to wind up like that.
Oh, they weren't that bad. I mean, they were kind of cute.
Oh my G-d, how embarrassing were they? I wanted to shoot myself.
Nice first impression. A nose bleed in front of your parents.
No, not at all. Sure. You're right. You fly home and get some rest.
Would you be bummed out if I didn't go to Chicago with you?
I'm taking you to the doctor when we get home, and I don't want to hear any arguments.
I feel like shit. Me and my frigging nosebleeds.
Are you sure you're okay? You're pale.
Okay, guys, we're gonna leave. Let's get the check.
Yeah, I don't feel so well.
You wanna split?
Oh my G-d, I'm so sorry.
Honey, your nose!
We'll take it.
Are you kidding?
Should we buy it?
I'm telling you, Derek, it will sell.
We're gonna call it California sinsemilla. Sounds exotic.
Yeah. I am.
You happy, baby?
Just everything. You. California. The beach. This spot right here. I feel like I belong here, you know? It just feels right.
This is it for me.
Nothing like this back home.
You'll see for yourself.
Are you sure this guy is cool?
Yeah. I am.
You happy, baby?
Just everything. You. California. The beach. This spot right here. I feel like I belong here, you know? It just feels right.
This is it for me.
Nothing like this back home.
You'll see for yourself.
Are you sure this guy is cool?
Look, if you really wanna score some dope, I got the guy.
Man. Fuck you guys. I have this great idea and you guys have to be all skeptical.
You can't sell this to your friends.
I know it's not the greatest. It's commercial.
Tuna, this is crap.
Look, if you really wanna score some dope, I got the guy.
Man. Fuck you guys. I have this great idea and you guys have to be all skeptical.
You can't sell this to your friends.
I know it's not the greatest. It's commercial.
Tuna, this is crap.
So you do have an agreement with the United States Government, Mr. Jung, correct?
I'm doing sixty years at Otisville, no chance of parole. Even if they cut my sentence in half I'll be seventy-three years old. That's some fucking deal. I don't know if the parole board, the judge, the pope or Jesus Christ himself can get me out of here. I have a really bad record, I'm not sure what's going to happen.
Mr. Jung, don't you have an agreement or understanding with the United States Government in connection with your testimony in this case?
Really. Are you getting paid, Mr. Jung?
Something about vengance being best served cold.
No, I cam here out of my own volition.
Do you have any agreement or understanding whatsoever with the United States government in regards to your testimony?
Yes, I am.
Mr. Jung, you're a convicted felon, correct?
Diego needs to see you right away, please. Excuse us, Amorcito.
Padrino will pay ten-thousand per kilo. For everyone. For you, and you, and you.
I see. How much?
You. Your responsibility is over. You do not fly. You are not a pilot. You are not a distributor. You introduced us to Mr. Stevens and the use of his airplane. That is all. You make a percentage. A generous one. And you're lucky to get that.
Why are you speaking?
You're a fucking amateur!
The coca is my responsibility!
It's a lousy fifteen kilos. I piss fifteen kilos.
I demand to know everything. I do not trust six-hundred thousand dollars of coca to someone I don't know.
What are we doing here, Diego? This guy's a clown. He's talking about clothes.
I would like to know the contents. Every detail is important.
My clothes, your clothes. What does it matter?
Whose cloths? Your clothes?
What? Yeah, sure.
Hmm. I see. Will there be clothes in the suitcase?
Tell me about the suitcases. What is the make and the color?
What details? I put the coke in the false bottoms and take it through customs.
Not so fast. I would like to go over the details.
I know. She needs to slow down. She's going to blow an O-ring.
Christ almighty, George. Feed her a cheeseburger or something. What does she weight, eighty pounds?
That was out of line.
For calling you a homo.
It's in the past. I'm out of the business now, so forget about it. No hard feelings. We need to move on. And besides, I'm sorry, too.
I lost sight of everything. Forgot who my friends were.
Look, I'm sorry about everything. I feel like an idiot. You were right. I did fuck you. And then Diego fucked me. Cut me out, too.
Yeah. She told me.
Happy Birthday, George. Mirtha invited me.
Yeah. I understand. Just business. Right. Fuck you.
It's nothing personal, George. Just business.
Not bad for a weekend's work, huh?
Nice doing business with you, George.
Half a million for you. Half a million for me. One-point-three five for the Colombians.
It's great and everything, but what am I going to do with all this?
What did I tell you?
Don't be ridiculous, these are my babies.
Are you sure you want to do this in front of everyone?
You guys are such babies. You want to go home, go. Me, I'm not going to stop until I find the fucking motherlode.
I don't think so.
Barbara and me. No one else.
And I only deal with you?
Goodness is right. If you do the math, that's over thirty grand a week profit. I want you to be my partner on this, Derek. Fifty-fifty. That's fifteen thousand a week for you, my friend. In your pocket, free and clear.
It's already been negotiated. It's done. The money is there waiting.
Come on, George, no one is going to pay that.
Here's the best part. We can charge five-hundred a pound.
I don't know...
Yeah, I know, it's a lot of weight.
You're kidding, right? That's a hundred pounds a week.
The way we figure it, Barbara flies to Boston twice a week. Two bags per flight. Twenty-five pounds in each bag.
It's your grass.
What the fuck is that?
I guess not. Okay. You know, you're very lucky you're friends of Barbie's. If you weren't, I'd never talk to you.
We're not cops. We're from Massachusettes. I mean, does he look like a cop?
Because if you are, you have to tell me. If not, it's entrapment.
I know what you want. But, first of all, are you cops?
We want some grass.
What can I do for you guys?
It's your grass.
What the fuck is that?
I guess not. Okay. You know, you're very lucky you're friends of Barbie's. If you weren't, I'd never talk to you.
We're not cops. We're from Massachusettes. I mean, does he look like a cop?
Because if you are, you have to tell me. If not, it's entrapment.
I know what you want. But, first of all, are you cops?
We want some grass.
What can I do for you guys?
Get me a six pack.
Oh hey, one more thing?
George? You better get yourself a good lawyer this time. We're gonna nail your ass to the wall on this one.
Fuck you, then. I sign nothing.
No fucking way.
I want my kid out of protective custody. Now. No fucking around. My wife and my kid on a plane tonight. I sign when they call me safe and sound.
George, don't be so emotional. This is business. Besides, I can't kill you, you are my brother.
You'd better kill me now, Diego, because you're a dead man.
I talked to Foreal, Diego.
No, I never. I would not do that, George. Never.
You went behind my back and you cut me out.
I did not.
You fucked me, Diego.
Of course we are brothers. Why do you say that? You hurt me, George.
No more brothers, Diego.
George, I am happy to see you. How are you, my brother?
Derek Foreal. Derek Foreal. Derek fucking Foreal. Alright? The answer to all your dreams. Are you happy now?
Es un Ford blanco junto a una pick-up.
Estoy bien, okay? Everything is alright. There's no problem. Okay? This never happened. No one has to know anything about this. Diego, I want you to calmly tell them where the fucking coke is. Do it now.
Que es lo que quieren de me, hijueputas campesinos?
Take it easy! Everything's okay!
This is not the time, Diego.
Everything is not alright. I bring you in, and you slap my fucking face!
Nothing. Todo esta bien.
I'm driving you crazy? No. You're driving me crazy. We had a dream. What happened to our dream?
Jesus fucking Christ, Diego. I ain't telling you. It's just business. Now, shut up. You're driving me crazy.
What do I do with it? Nothing. It's for peace of mind. It's for the principle.
What do you need my connection for, Diego? What are you going to do with it?
I'm very angry with you, George. Very angry. You don't take me to California, but you take your bitch wife? A woman? I understand you love her, but it was you and me who started this. You and me.
Shut up, Diego. They're going to be here any minute. I'm trying to concentrate.
Three years. How long have we been in business? Three years. Does she get to meet your connection? Was she good enough?
I love you too, man.
I love you, my brother, do you know that?
You're a lucky man, Diego.
I'm married, George. Me. I can't believe it. Can you believe I'm married, George?
Then relax. It's a federal bank. Guaranteed by the government. And Senor Noriega has very lenient banking principles. No questions. No problems. All the pesados keep their money here. Even El Padrino. What do you worry? Everyone knows we are with Escobar. Who is going to fuck with us?
And keep only forty-percent? No thanks.
George, we've got sixty-one million dollars. It's either here or someplace else. We've got to put it somewhere. Unless you want to launder it.
Are you comfortable with this?
Try the closet.
There's no room.
Try the back bedroom.
Where do I put this!?
I don't give a shit. Close enough.
Weight it. If it's sixty pounds, it's three. If it's fifty, it's two-point five.
Fuck it. I'm not counting it again.
We're half a million off.
I'm calling it three.
It's two-point-five, George. I am sure.
Three million. I counted it twice.
Yeah. You do the talking.
Who? I need to know. Ah, never mind. We'll talk about it later.
Just a friend.
Right. Now who is the person in California? The connection?
Yeah. Keep my mouth shut and let you do the talking.
Pablo used his influence. Now, George, watch what you say. Everybody hears everything. A lot of things get said and done that, well, let's just say this isn't America. Life is cheap here, you know? No offense, but you know what I'm saying?
What the fuck is going on? When did you get out of jail?
George, good to see you, my brother.
But to the victor belong the spoils.
I think it's fair to say you underestimated the market there, Derek.
Thirty-six hours. I can't believe it. Everything is gone in thirty-six hours.
Just sell it, Derek.
Jesus Christ, George, I don't see you in two years, and you show up at my door with a hundred and ten pounds of cocaine?
Well, you better get here fast. I'm sitting on...
Bad news, George. I'm in Colombia.
Jesus Christ, Diego, where are you? It's been eleven days and these guys want their fucking money.
I need you to go to Miami.
What is it, George? Because I have to get home. I've got a parole officer waiting for me.
This is only part of the business, George. A very small part. Don't worry, there is so much more to do. Which reminds me, I need a favor from you. I must go to Colombia.
That's my George, always thinking.
And what happens when these guys stop paying? Sooner or later, these guys are going to cut us out. Then where are we?
It is bad. It's chump change. We might as well be hauling suitcases across the border. We're getting screwed.
A million dollars for our first run is not bad, George.
What's the matter? We're moving three hundred fucking kilos and we're making dogshit.
What's the matter, George?
We make the pick-up, refuel once more in the Bahamas, and fly back on Sunday with the mom and pop traffic.
Fifteen kilos. Seven and a half in each suitcase. You receive a hundred thousand dollars upon delivery.
Yes. Look around you. The sun. The water. The women. It's better than Danbury, no? Come on. I have some friends I would like you to meet.
Good to see you, Diego.
George, are we gonna do this or not?
I just got released five minutes ago.
But you must. It's the only way.
I can't go anywhere, Diego. I'm on parole. I can't leave the state.
You need to come down here, everybody meets everybody. Ho ho ho. Ha ha ha. We do one for good faith and then we talk about airplanes.
Slow down, George. Slow down.
Do we need a plane? How does this work? When do I see you?
Perfect, George. Perfect. Everything is fine down here. Everything is all set up.
How are we doing?
Congratulations, brother. I've been waiting for you.
Yeah, I'm out.
George, hallo! Today is the day, ah? Are you out?
Diego? It's George.
Diego Delgado, please?
Great. I love the Bahamas.
We'll refuel in the Bahamas. I know someone there.
Fifteen hundred. We'll have to stop somewhere to refuel.
I don't know. A hundred, hundred and fifty. How many miles is it from Colombia to Miami?
How many kilos can we fit in these planes?
Four passenger, single engine Cessna.
What type of planes do you have?
Don't worry. We will talk of everything. We have the time. You arrive here with a Bachelor of Marijuana, but you will leave with a Doctorate of Cocaine.
Getting it here is no problem. Trust me. I'll fly it in myself if I have to. What about supply? How much can we get?
Now do you see what I am saying?
Jesus Christ. Jesus fucking Christ.
Yes. And a kilo of coca is smaller than a kilo of your precious marijuana. Everything is the same, George, except instead of thousands, you are making millions.
Oh my G-d.
And that's wholesale. Cut it a few times and retail, you're looking at two, three-hundred thousand.
That's over fifty-thousand dollars profit per kilo.
No, no. That is where you are wrong. For us, it is cheap. In Medellin, we buy for six-thousand dollars a kilo. IN Miami, we sell for sixty.
I don't know, Diego. I've got a good thing going already. Everybody smokes pot. It's easy. Cocaine is a rich man's drug. It's too expensive.
George? What do you know about cocaine?
You failed because you had the wrong dream.
Because they caught me?
No, my brother.
Because I got caught.
Yes, you have a dream. And maybe you accomplish your dream. But yet you failed. Why?
I would if I could get some sleep.
In my country, I am a magico. A man with a dream. A man on the rise. To take nothing and make it something, okay? I have failed my dream, but I will accomplish. That is why I am in your country. Yes, I lose my freedom. But they do not take my dream. Do you have a dream, George?
You like to make the boundaries disappear. It's not only the money, is it, George? The adventure is part of the victory. It's the thrill, ah?
I'm tired, Diego. Go to bed.
I never believed you were a murderer. I knew. I knew you are a magico. I have seen it in you. It's in your spirit.
What's the other one?
Only two ways I know to leave here early. One is to escape.
I've got to get out of here, Diego.
Twenty-six months? For murder? I must be your lawyer.
You have your intrigues. I have mine. This is a happy day for me, George. Nine months from today, I will be in Medellin sipping champagne. In nine months, I am free. How much time do you have?
I thought you said we were roommates. That we should talk about everything.
Never mind. Not for you to worry.
What kind of project?
Nothing. Just a little project.
What do you got there, Diego?
Ah, yes. The murder.
Oh, come on, George. If we are to be friends, we must trust each other.
Me, too. Too much blah, blah, blah, blah is no good. But we are roommates, okay? And we must talk to each other. I am arrested for stealing cars. For the grand theft auto. Okay? So, now it is your turn. Now you will tell me, okay? You will tell me why you are here?
I don't like a lot of conversation, Diego.
Not really, no.
Intriguing. I see. Would you like to know my crime?
I don't want to talk about it.
Your offense? Why are you here?
If you don't mind me asking, what is the reason you are in this place?
Oh, Jesus, Get me a 12-lead e.k.g. and start an i.v. stat! This man is having a heart attack.
In how long? A week?
I don't know. Maybe eighteen grams.
Cocaine? How much?
He's in tachycardia. George, your heart is racing. Have you been using drugs?
Tell him I don't want to see him. Tell him he's not welcome here.
Oh, I see.
Mirtha comes from a very wealthy family.
I've seen those in magazines. They're not cheap.
It's a family heirloom.
Okay, Mom. It's okay. Where's Dad?
You mean the drug money? Yes, I got it.
Thank you. Have you been getting the money I sent you?
Yes, Barbara. She was very pretty.
Yeah. We heard all about it. I want you to know I'm deeply sorry about your girlfriend.
Take your boots off. You're tan.
Surprised to see me?
The boy is happy, Fred. Don't be such a killjoy.
Oh, shut up, Fred. Shut your big fat mouth. You don't buy it all at once. It's called layaway.
Well, you know. It's um...
Look at this credenza. If you don't mind me asking, how much is something like that? It's got to cost a fortune.
You, you big old tightwad. He still has his communion money. Tell him, George. Tell your father about layaway.
Who's the cheapskate?
That's right. Layaway. Something you wouldn't know anything about, you cheapskate.
Yes. Of course. But, I'm talking about that ring. It's something else. Let me tell you.
I'm just happy that George has found someone he cares for.
I just can't get over the size of that ring. I just love it. Fred, look at it. Tell me you don't love that ring.
Of course, George. We are beautiful. We are brothers. Real brothers. Not like Diego. We started this, George.
Yeah, well, what are you gonna do? You and me, Pablo? Are we good?
I'm sorry, George.
I get it. I'm really pissed, Pablo. You know the DEA knows about Norman's Cay. For Chrissakes, Diego worships Adolf Hitler and John Lennon, that's fucked up!
Life will take care of everybody. Diego, me, you. It is the teacher.
You're saying life will take care of Diego?
It is very difficult. Diego makes me a lot of money. If Diego goes so does the money. You were an excellent teacher, George. When the student has learned well, the teacher is no longer necessary. We must remember we have wives, friends, familia. Even familia that has not been born. But sometimes, we must forget as well. I am like you. I must teach the lesson. We want to teach the lesson. But we cannot. We must remember that life is the teacher.
You know why I'm here. You know what I have to do. I came here for permission. Out of respect, Pablo. This is bullshit, he's making me look like a punk.
I see. I'm sorry about this, George. I'm not happy about this situation. It's bad. You now know who your Brutus is.
I didn't come here to drink scotch.
Please. Sit down. We'll drink some scotch.
George, you look terrible.
Diego is my brother.
Keep them coming? Ah, yes. Ha ha. You are right. But money.
Keep them coming.
Yes. Money. Which is what, George?
I want money.
Yes. I do not know, either. What do you want, George?
What do I think? I don't want my answer to be influenced by what I want, so I'm going to have to say I don't know.
People tell me that I am crazy. That my business will never work in your country. What do you think, George?
I like to come up here. To make the decisions. To be one with nature.
As much as I can give you? Ha ha. Very good. I like that. Come, George. Let us drive. We have much to talk about.
Yes, sir. As much as you can give me.
So, you are wanting to sell the cocaine for me in your country, George?
Yes, it is.
I like you, George. You are loyal. That is good. That is rare. Maybe crazy. Yes. I can tell already. You are like me. I look at you and I see myself. It's in the eyes, no, George?
With all respect, Padrino. Diego is my partner. I do not do business without him.
But, never mind. I am thinking we can do much together. This problem with Diego, the stolen car, the jail, is very silly business. To release him from the carcel, it causes me much inconvenience. The fifty kilos could have been a big problem. And I don't like problems.
Un rata - no good. But he could have run, fled the country. Gone to the policia. But then his wife, his children, his parents, his friends, many people would die.
The man in the garden. He was full of courage.
Good. Very good. Welcome, my friend. Welcome to my country.
It would be my pleasure.
The man who gives us the airplanes. The man from America. The mafia. Chicago. Boom boom. Hollywood. You are going to open for us the gates of Hollywood, George?
Actually, it was three.
So, this is the man who takes fifty kilos and makes them disappear in one day?
Did you know I died two weeks after you sent me that tape?
I meant every word of it.
That was a beautiful message.
I guess I kind of lost sight of things. "May the wind always be at your back and the sun always upon your face, and the winds of destiny carry you aloft to dance with the stars." Love, George.
That was a good one, Dad. That was really something. Remember that?
...you sonofabitch. Putting on George's boots.
That's where you belong...
And that FBI agent, Trout? When he had to get on his knees to put my boots on? You said...
I'll tell her.
Tell Mom, you know...
Yeah, I know. This is it, isn't it?
Give it to her, Dad. It'll make her happy.
Money. You and your mother. All the time chasing it. I never understood it.
Give this to Mom, will you?
You're not going to trial?
Yeah. Listen. I'm going to be going away for awhile.
She's angry. It's all over the news.
I heard. Ermine, your son is here.
Yeah, Dad. I'm happy right now.
No, it's good. You have a family. It's good if it makes you happy. It's nice to have nice things. Are you happy, son?
You're like your mother. You love money.
Don't bullshit me, George. I don't see you very much, I don't want to waste the time.
So, business is going good. I've got this import/export thing going on in Miami that's been very profitable. With my investments...
Let me tell you something, son. You would have been great at anything.
I know. I'm great at what I do, Dad. I mean, I'm really great.
I just don't know what you're thinking. I don't understand your choices. You know, the police are looking for you.
Yeah, you are. I can tell by the way you look at me.
You mad at me?
Yeah, Dad. I really did. What am I gonna do?
You loved her, didn't you? You really loved her.
...and the winds of destiny carry you aloft...
May the wind always be at your back and the sun always upon your face...
I'm going to California.
What are you going to do?
No, Dad. I don't want to...I mean, I just don't want...
Alright. You want me to get your old job back? Because I could, you know, I could put in that word.
That's too bad. You would have been the first one in the family.
There's something out there for me, Dad. Something different. Something free form, you know? Something for me, and college just isn't it.
I'm going to California.
What are you going to do?
No, Dad. I don't want to...I mean, I just don't want...
Alright. You want me to get your old job back? Because I could, you know, I could put in that word.
That's too bad. You would have been the first one in the family.
There's something out there for me, Dad. Something different. Something free form, you know? Something for me, and college just isn't it.
No thanks, fellas. You've got the wrong fucking guy. I'm not a rat.
Don't be stupid, George. We've got him. We've got him dead to rights. But like I said, this is top priority so we're handing out free passes on this one. And the first one's got your name on it. Cut your sentence in half, maybe more.
He's going down, George. It's election year. We're not making any deals.
What the fuck? Is he going to walk?
What about him?
You hear about your old friend, Diego?
What do you guys want?
How are you doing, George?
He's getting middled, too. And Derek's our partner. What's good for us is good for him.
Source? What about Derek?
The set-up is wrong. We're doing all the legwork, and at the end of the day, we're still paying retail. We're getting middled.
What the fuck are you talking about, man?
Holy shit, Dulli. What the hell are you doing here?
Look what the cat dragged in.
We sell it. I got it all figured out. We make three finger lids and sell them on the beach. We move all of it. We've made ourselves a hundred bucks. Or a lot of weed for our head. What do you think? Not bad, huh? I got the baggies and everything.
It's oregano. You got ripped off, pal. What are you gonna do with all this?
You know how we were wondering what we were going to do for money? Being how we don't want to get jobs and whatnot? Well, check this out.
Figured what out?
Figured it out.
We sell it. I got it all figured out. We make three finger lids and sell them on the beach. We move all of it. We've made ourselves a hundred bucks. Or a lot of weed for our head. What do you think? Not bad, huh? I got the baggies and everything.
It's oregano. You got ripped off, pal. What are you gonna do with all this?
You know how we were wondering what we were going to do for money? Being how we don't want to get jobs and whatnot? Well, check this out.
Figured what out?
Figured it out.
Better than you.
Mirtha, how are you doing?
George, he wasn't asking.
He wants me to testify? Is that what he's asking me to do?
Well, I got a call from Pablo. He said this thing with Diego is a disaster. He's giving up lab locations, names, bank accounts, he was very pissed off. Pablo said to take him down. His exact words were "Fuck Diego."
Is she here? George, Kristina hates you. You fucked her over one too many times. And I'm not here to socialize. Did you hear about Diego?
Is she here? Is she coming?
Mirtha, what's going on? Everything okay with Kristina?
Yeah. I'm fine. I'm good.
Hey, George. You okay?
I know. Well, that's all I really wanted to say. So, okay, then.
She's getting big. Getting her own ideas.
Hey, look. You start paying, who knows what will happen. You're a good father, George. I always gave you that. But you've got to talk to her.
Yeah, you will. Of course.
Yeah? I better see some money out of it.
Yeah, well. I'm working on that. I've got something going.
I haven't seen one dollar from you. You haven't paid me one cent in child support, alimony.
Yeah, so I've been thinking. I love her, y'know? I kind of want to have her. I've been away for so long. Make up for the missed time, you know?
Yeah. She told me. You walk her to school.
You knew I was seeing Kristina, right?
What do you want?
Fuck you, George. I knew you'd say something like that. Always thinking about yourself.
What do you want me to say? I'm in prison. You should know. You put me here.
You should have taken better care of me, you know? You've been away a long time. Four years. Say something.
That's right. Always spying, always judging. Everyone's laughing at you, you fucking pussy. You let Diego fuck you in the ass. Maybe you are a fucking faggot. You must be fucking Diego because you're not fucking me.
My problem? We're broke, that's my fucking problem. And you're a fucking spy.
Hey, why don't you just put a "I'm doing cocaine" sign on the car. What is your fucking problem?
Fuck you, George, just fucking drive.
There's a fucking cop behind us, Mirtha. Be cool, will ya.
Don't give me that shit. You just better do something.
Not in front of the kid.
Don't touch me. Tell me. Just answer the question. What do I spend? What? How will we live?
Please, Mirtha. I'll start working for Augusto. I'll talk to him tonight. I'll do something.
What are we going to do?! What are we going to use for money?!
Oh fucking relax. Let your hair down for once. It's your fucking birthday, for Chrissakes. You're such a fucking pussy. I swear to G-d, I married this big time drug dealer and wound up with the maid.
No, that's alright.
Where are you going?
Can you lift the furnace. I need money.
I said, I've seen it before.
But this is...
Yeah. I know. She did that before.
No. These are her first steps. Watch her.
She did that before.
Look, Mirtha. She's walking.
Pablo said no. It's all over. And I'm never going back. I have you. We have the baby. And there's nothing else. It's just the family now. Shhh. Sleep now.
Pablo said no?
Shhh, honey, never mind. It's alright. It's over. I quit the business. I'm out.
George. Oh, Jesus Christ, George. Look at you.
Put that shit away, they're here.
Oh, don't be such a fucking hypocrite. I quit smoking, didn't I?
I like fire.
You better know what you're doing, George. You're playing with fire.
What is your name?
I know who you are, El Americano. Mister George.
I don't know. My name is George.
Why are you smiling?
Why are you smiling?
I don't think so.
Do I know you?
After everything. After everything, the only thing left out of my whole life is you.
I know, Dad. I love you too.
I love you. I love you so much. You've got to know that. You've got to know.
I fucked up.
I know, Dad. I know...
I didn't mean to...
It's alright, Dad.
I'm sorry, baby. I'm so sorry.
I swear on your life.
Swear on my life.
I swear. On my life.
I don't believe you.
That's right. Three o'clock. Thursday. At your mother's. You and me. It's a date.
There's schools in California.
But I've got school.
You let me take care of your mother. You just pack your bags.
You know I can't. Mom will never let me go.
Yeah. Go out there, check it out, see what it's like. I've got some stuff to do this week, but I'm thinking maybe Thursday. Thursday after school.
I don't know. Maybe California.
Where are you going?
I'm thinking about getting out of town this week. You want to come with me?
I'll be here.
Bye, Dad. See you in the morning, okay?
No. I just kind of like the sound of it.
What is it? A Disneyland thing?
California? You can go anywhere in the world. India. Tibet. Australia. Paris. And you choose California?
Yeah, sure, whatever.
You mean, like a trip?
Let me ask you something. If you could go anywhere in the world, anywhere, where would you want to go?
Do what you want, it's a free country.
Just to walk with you. I want to be your dad again.
What do you want from me?
Kristina, c'mon, I'm sorry. I'm going to make this right. I've got a few things going on...
I don't want, alright? It's not funny. I'm really pissed off, George. You blew it, now leave me alone.
You can call me Dad if you want.
George, you just can't show up, tell me you love me, and have everything be okay.
How are you doing?
Well, here I am. See?
Nothing. I just wanted you to know I was out. I just wanted to see you.
What are you doing here?
No, never. Don't even think about that, it's impossible. I love your mother. And you are my heart. Could I live without my heart? Could I?
Are we gonna split up?
I don't know.
What's happening to us?
Everything's gonna be okay, sweetheart. Don't be upset.
We'll do that tomorrow, okay? It's lockdown time.
Because she's visiting me.
But I want to put her name on the list for tomorrow. My daughter.
Not today, George. Time to go back.
But I have a visitor.
Shortly after I arrived at Danbury Federal Correctional Institute I related to Diego that the crime I was in for was smuggling marijuana. Diego told me he had high level connections in Colombia and they needed to find someone to help them transport cocaine into America...
Mr. Jung, can you describe the circumstances of how you began talking about cocaine with Mr. Delgado?
Let the record state the witness has identified, Diego Delgado.
Yes, he's sitting right there at the end of the table.
Do you see him here in the courtroom?
Yes, I do.
Mr. Jung, do you know Diego Delgado?
I don't give a shit. Split it up. Have a great life. I'm done. I'm out. Starting over. Cheers.
Jesus, George, fifteen percent. That's an extra two-hundred large.
You saved my life, Dulli. You'll never fucking know. All you guys. Everyone just got a raise. Instead of ten percent, you get fifteen.
They're over at the booth.
Sounds fine. I'll need to meet everybody.
You're looking at him. We provide the plane, transportation cost, U.S. landing spot, and take it to wherever you want it to go. You provide the pick up point in South America, and are responsible for payment. You assume all the bust risks. We take sixty-five percent of all transportation fees, ten percent of the gross, plus our expenses. This is not a negotiation, so if this is okay with you, we can talk further. If not, we can forget we had this conversation.
Who's the co-pilot?
It's a four-man operation. Two on the ground. Two in the air.
Actually, I've got some news. That fifty thousand I promised you, I couldn't get it.
Good to see you, Jorge. You are a man of your word.
Amigo, you bring me fifty-thousand dollars, and I have no more concerns.
What if I brought you, let's say, fifty thousand dollars? Would that eliminate some of your concerns?
Marijuana is illegal in my country, and I believe in yours, as well. We must be careful.
I don't need a little. I need a lot.
Listen, Americano, it is very nice to meet you, but maybe we are going too fast. You take a little and then come back.
All of it. As much as you've got. A couples thousand pounds. I'll be back in a week with a plane.
Ha ha ha. You are funny. Really, how much will you be needing?
Very nice. I'll take it.
For instance, something like this?
Yes, I am.
Ramon tells me you are looking for some mota.
Are we good? Yeah, we're good. We're beautiful. We're perfect. This is A grade, one-hundred percent pure Colombian cocaine, Ladies and Gentlemen. Disco shit. Pure as the driven snow. Good riddance.
Are we good?
That was it. Seeing Dulli after fourteen years sealed the deal for me. The rest was just details. My end was roughly five-hundred thousand. Kristina and I could have a good life for five hundred grand. Start over somewhere. One final score. That's all I needed.
Georgie, oh man, hold the mayo!
Holy shit, Dulli!
Relax. I've flown with my old man a million times. And he always told me, the taking off part is easy, it's the landing you've got to worry about.
Not that far, only halfway. You sure you know what you're doing?
Who speaks Spanish?
Okay. So we need a source. Where do we start?
So, we need to get to the source.
It's not enough.
When there's something to move, it's too easy not to. Do you know how many colleges are in a twenty mile radius? U. Mass, Amherst, B.U....
Shit, yeah. Do you know how much money I could make if I had this stuff back east?
I wish there was shit like this back home.
G-d, I'm stoned. I'm stoned. I'm really...
No, man. I'm too fucked up.
This calls for a joint. You want to do the honors?
I'm on vacation. On my way back to school.
Yeah, but what are you doing out here?
Well, I'll tell you. I was walking down the beach, minding my business, when who did I see but this fucking guy. I didn't know you guys were living in California.
Don't be such a pussy.
I can't believe we're stealing a plane.
You know, he's got a point. We're fucking Americans. We stick out like sore thumbs.
This is bullshit, George. We're never going to find anything down there.
Cheer up, man. Half this money is ours. We're fucking rich.
What's the matter, George? Something wrong? You look like you just fucked your mother.
Jesus Christ, I'm getting a boner just looking at it.
Twenty, forty, sixty, eighty, nine. Twenty, forty, sixty, eighty, a thousand. It's all there. Wow. A hundred and twenty-eight thousand dollars.
Right. And Holyoke. There are a hundred thousand rich kids with their parents' money to spend, but there's never anything available. Nothing good, anyway. I'm paying four hundred dollars for shit.
No shit, Kevin?
Fuck yeah. I never seen nothing like it. I'm fucking wasted.
Nice weed, huh?
The successes obtained are the results of those methods. One presupposes the other and vice versa.
Colonel Mathieu ... Much has been said lately not only of the successes obtained by the paratroopers, but also of the methods that they have employed ... Can you tell us something about this?
The UN is far away, dear sir. It is easier to make oneself heard with bombs. If I were in their place, I would use bombs.
They seemed to be plausible this time. A general strike is a good argument for the UN.
And you believe the NLF?
But the NLF has always spoken of a strike as a demonstration ...
No. It has failed in its objective.
The strike is a success; but ...
Look around. I've put everything at your disposal. Go take a look with your own eyes.
And those who explode bombs in public places, do they perhaps respect the law? When you asked that question to Ben M'Hidi, remember what he said? No, gentlemen, believe me, it is a vicious circle. And we could discuss the problem for hours without reaching any conclusions. Because the problem does not lie here. The problem is: the NLF wants us to leave Algeria and we want to remain. Now, it seems to me that, despite varying shades of opinion, you all agree that we must remain. When the rebellion first began, there were not even shades of opinion. All the newspapers, even the left-wing ones wanted the rebellion suppressed. And we were sent here for this very reason. And we are neither madmen nor sadists, gentlemen. Those who call us fascists today, forget the contribution that many of us made to the Resistance. Those who call us Nazis, do not know that among us there are survivors of Dachau and Buchenwald. We are soldiers and our only duty is to win. Therefore, to be precise, I would now like to ask you a question: Should France remain in Algeria? If you answer "yes," then you must accept all the necessary consequences.
The law is often inconvenient, colonel ...
Let's try to be precise then. The word "torture" does not appear in our orders. We have always spoken of interrogation as the only valid method in a police operation directed against unknown enemies. As for the NLF, they request that their members, in the event of capture, should maintain silence for twenty-four hours, and then, they may talk. Thus, the organization has already had the time necessary to render useless any information furnished ... What type of interrogation should we choose? ... the one the courts use for a crime of homicide which drags on for months?
The questions have already been asked. I would only like some precise answers, that's all ...
I understand. What's your question?
Excuse me, colonel. I have the impression that perhaps due to excessive prudence ... my colleagues continue to ask the same allusive questions, to which you can only respond in an allusive manner. I think it would be better to call things by their right names; if one means torture, then one should call it torture.
It depends on you.
In Indochina, <U>they</U> won.
Dien Bien Phu?
It is an inevitable stage in revolutionary war; from terrorism, one passes to insurrection ... as from open guerrilla warfare one passes to real war, the latter being the determining factor ...
Uh ... responsible for the sixth section.
Third group. What's your assignment?
Second district, Casbah, West Algiers.
Second district ... Explain better ...
Second district ...
Which "district" do you belong to?
Go ahead! C'mon ... Repeat everything from the beginning, and then we'll let you go. Name ...
You've got to change occupations, Hacene. Right away!
What ... What must I decide?
They're not paying me anything. They've already warned you twice; this is the last warning. Decide.
How much are they paying you?
The NLF has condemned you to death.
What's happened to you?
Why are you afraid? We've always been friends. One might even say that I brought you up ... Isn't it true, Ali?
Don't move, Hacene.
You afraid of these ...?
No. Not you, or any one of us. As long as we are free, the NLF continues to exist in the Casbah. If they manage to take us too, there won't be anything left ... And from nothing comes nothing ...
No, immediately. The people are demoralized. Leave this to me ...
Of course. As soon as possible.
Yes, but we must also show them that we still exist.
It's better to split up, to increase our chances. We must change hiding places, and change them continually ... In the meantime, we must make new contacts, replace our arrested brothers, reorganize our sections--
No, it's better if he doesn't. The house is filled with new people.
Why? Isn't he sleeping here?
And how many are we?
Because we aren't ready yet for the French. Before attacking, we must have safe places from which to depart and find refuge. Of course, there is the Casbah. But even the Casbah isn't safe yet. There are too many drunks, pushers, whores, addicts, spies ... people who talk too much ... people who are ready to sell themselves, undecided people. We must either convince them or eliminate them. We must think of ourselves first. We must clean out the Casbah first. Only then will we be able to deal with the French. Do you understand, Ali?
You still haven't told me why you didn't let me kill him.
Then don't complain.
I don't do that kind of thing.
C'mon ... you're exaggerating. The orders were to shoot him in the back.
What's important for me is that you let me risk my life for nothing.
You weren't able to. But what's important is that you tried.
But I haven't shot him.
My name is Kader, Ali ... Saari Kader ... In other words, in order to join the organization, you had to undergo a test. I could have told you to murder the barman, but he's an Algerian ... and the police would let you kill him, even though he is one of theirs. By obeying such an order, you still could have been a double agent. And that's why I told you to kill the French policeman: because the French wouldn't have let you do it. If you were with the police you wouldn't have done it.
I don't even know your name yet ...
Even that could be a trick. You escape, then show up at the address which the brothers in prison gave to you, and so you are able to contact me ...
Sure. By shooting at me.
Let's suppose you were a spy. In prison, when the NLF contacts you, you pretend to support the revolution, and then the French help you to escape ...
With an unloaded pistol?
With the others. They are trying to stop the people.
Can you read?
Men have two faces: one that laughs and one that cries ...
Yes ... yes. The problem also involves the UN. I don't know what it's worth, but this way, we'll give the UN the possibility of evaluating our strength.
To show them to the UN, right?
That's true ... Wars aren't won with terrorism, neither wars nor revolutions. Terrorism is a beginning but afterward, all the people must act ... This is the reason for the strike, and its necessity: to mobilize all Algerians, count them and measure their strength ...
Because they told us that we mustn't use weapons, now, when the time is right.
No, and neither were my men.
But Kader told me that you weren't in favor of the strike.
No, they'll do even more. We've given them the opportunity to do a lot more ... Do you understand what I mean? Starting tomorrow, they won't be groping in the dark any more; every shop and every worker who strikes will be a known enemy, a self-confessed criminal ... And they will be able to pass to the offensive. Have you thought of this?
It's clear. They'll do everything possible to make it fail.
Yes, I think so too ... It's been organized well ... But what will the French do?
I think it'll be a success ...
What do you think of the strike, Ali?
It's a question of habit ...
It's good nobody is following us ...
Let's try ...
Be careful now. Unless you know how it works, it's better if you sit on the plank and move forward like this ...
I'm sorry. Tomorrow. Tonight is out of the question.
Please, we just want to take a short ride. A friend of mine has never seen the Casbah.
It's ten minutes past midnight. Curfew begins at midnight.
But it's not even midnight yet!
It's too late. No one is allowed to enter the Casbah at this hour. It's impossible.
Good evening ... Can we pass?
Good evening, sir.
All right. See you tomorrow, Corbiere.
Rue de Thbes? In the Upper Casbah, I think ...
Tell me ... Where is this rue de Thbes?
Good evening, sir.
Good, thank you, Corbiere... . See you tomorrow.
Intersection, between Consular Street and General Laquiere Avenue ...
Where were we?
Why, yes, of course ... But for the moment, let's be satisfied with Algiers! In the mountains our work is always easier.
Bah, for that matter, Algeria isn't the only country in the world ...
Let's hope forever.
Yes, I believe there won't be any more talk of the NLF for some time.
And so the tapeworm no longer has a head. Are you satisfied, Mathieu? In Algiers everything should be over.
Yes, a name for the operation.
Mathieu! Mathieu, a name ...
She says that Ali is still in the Casbah.
What is she saying?
No. Let's just say that you've given me the satisfaction to have guessed correctly. But from the technical point of view, it isn't possible to speak of advantages. By now the game is over. The NLF has been defeated.
That proves that I was wrong. Evidently I credited you with an advantage greater than I should have.
Of course I am.
You seem to be very satisfied to have taken me alive ...
For many months, I've had your photo on my desk together with a dozen or so reports on you ... And naturally, I am under the illusion that I know you somewhat. You never seemed the type, Kader, inclined to performing useless actions.
Yes ... But let me first see you.
Are you ready, colonel?
Okay, I'll make the statement in writing ...
We'll lower a basket from the window ...
How can I give you this statement?
Okay. But we want your promise for a fair trial in writing. Give us a written statement, Mathieu, and then we'll surrender.
We don't trust you, colonel. Come forward, show yourself.
Mathieu. Colonel Mathieu.
Who is speaking?
Thanks, Mister D.
You did a good job, Charlie.
I don't know.
You think the D.A.'s gonna file on Joanne?
Take some time off.
She kills the old man and makes it look like Miss Lawson did it. Pretty slick.
Under the law a person cannot profit from their own wrong doing. Since Rebecca Lawson is the sole beneficiary of the new will, if she is found guilty the will is void and Joanne Braslow could make a very good case to have the old will reinstated.
What good does that do -- it's the old will?
Here it is! According to the old will Joanne Braslow was to inherit two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
What would Joanne Braslow need with an estate attorney? She wasn't even mentioned in Marsh's will.
Joe Koehler. I know him. He's an estate attorney -- and he's very expensive.
Joanne Braslow is getting more and more interesting. I followed her today to an attorney's office. Joseph Koehler.
Right now. Guess who's been buying Coke from him for the last five and half years?
Charlie -- are you going to make a point soon?
You got something on the Coke?
I'm sorry to barge in -- but I figured after that bombshell that got laid on you today you could use some good news?
Because it hasn't all been erased.
It's very good -- because when the D.A's office saw it they assumed it was the end of the tape, otherwise they would have buried it.
So, what good is it to us if it's been erased?
I would have missed it -- but the phone rang and I let it play while I talked. It looks like blank tape -- but it isn't. It's been erased without any input signal coming in.
No -- but I got something.
You got something on the coke?
I've been waiting for you to get back.
You've got to get me something I can use, Charlie.
Before you ask there's nothing new on the coke.
I want you to hit all the dealers in town. Give them a list of people close to Marsh and see if any of them use. Then I want you to check out a Doctor Alan Paley. He lives up in Roseburg.
So -- where do we start?
We have to find out who else would profit from Marsh's death -- and who knew enough about his personal life to know that putting cocaine in the nasal spray would be fatal.
I'm sorry, man -- but I ain't ever heard of no brother dying from gettin' too much pussy.
It could've happened to anyone.
Yeah -- I hear they had 'em a real dog and pony show going on up there - - I'll tell you, sometimes white people are a real puzzle to me. I mean, did this old guy really think he was gonna be able to keep up with a sweet little number like that?
Fine, Charlie. You familiar with the Marsh case?
How you doin' Mister D?
Did I say it was a natural death?
Because he wasn't dead when she left, and even if he was, not reporting a natural death in a timely fashion isn't a crime.
For starters I'd like to know why she left the house and didn't report the death?
An inquiry into what?
I just wanted to introduce myself and inform Miss Lawson that there will be an inquiry.
I don't think that this is the time, or the place.
Then you can go.
I think I'm going to make your day.
That's the best part. She gets it all -- everything.
What about the will?
Had to. I also interviewed three women who were in past relationships with Marsh. There's no evidence that he had anything but straight sex prior to meeting Miss Lawson.
So she knew about his heart?
He can remember at least one occasion -- and the receptionist can recall two times when she accompanied Marsh to the office.
What did he say about Miss Lawson?
Marsh's Cardiologist told me that after Marsh was diagnosed with heart disease he quit smoking, quit drinking and started exercising every day. Does that sound like a guy who'd start shoveling cocaine up his nose?
Thank you, Doctor McCurdy. Your witness.
It would be the same as shooting a gun at him.
What would be the effect if someone secretly administered cocaine to Mr. Marsh and then induced him to make love?
It would be an added stress to his heart.
-- And if he were in the midst of making love while under the influence of cocaine?
Increase his heart rate.
Dr. McCurdy, what would cocaine do to someone in Mr. Marsh's condition?
Yes -- those of Mr. Marsh and a thumb print of Miss Lawson's.
Your Honor, the State enters this evidence as exhibit A. Were any fingerprints found on the bottle?
Is this the bottle that was found on the nightstand?
We found a bottle of Dristan nasal spray on the nightstand. It was filled with water and cocaine. Mr. Marsh had a head cold at the time of his death. I believe he wasn't aware that he was ingesting cocaine.
Then how did it get into his body?
I don't think so. The membrane in his nasal passage didn't show any sign of long time usage.
So, Mr. Marsh used cocaine?
We found a high concentration of cocaine in his blood.
What induced it?
Was the heart attack the result of natural causes?
Very poor. He was suffering from severe arterial disease.
What was Mr. Marsh's physical condition prior to his death?
A massive cardiac arrest.
Doctor McCurdy, what was the cause of death?
Can we put Rebecca Lawson at the scene?
Cocaine is the last thing a man in his condition would want.
Any prints on the nasal spray?
We know Marsh had a head cold. We found cocaine mixed with water in a nasal spray container on the nightstand. The coke would contract the nasal membrane the same as any decongestant, but for a much shorter time. He'd keep using more and more -- never knowing what he was taking.
What can we prove?
What are you saying, Henry? That his girlfriend fucked him to death?
But there's more?
That's what my report will read.
The official cause?
The official cause of death was a cardiac arrest.
What'd he die of?
Marsh wasn't alone. We found traces of sperm on the sheets. The toxicology report says there were high levels of cocaine in his blood.
Not sure. I'll have everything you need tomorrow.
About three hours.
No -- never.
Did you ever see Mr. Marsh use cocaine?
Could you be more specific?
What was the nature of the argument?
Well -- he died on a Sunday and I have the weekends off -- but they were ripping at each other with both barrels Friday afternoon.
Did they argue the day before he died?
You name it -- they argued about it. Mr. Marsh tried his best to keep her happy -- but it seemed that no matter what he did it was never enough for her.
What did they argue about?
Like cats and dogs.
Did Miss Lawson and Mr. Marsh ever argue?
Mrs. Crawford, you were Mr. Marsh's maid for nine years?
Counsel approach the bench.
Objection, Your Honor.
You may call your next witness.
Did Miss Lawson ever give you any indication why she was leaving?
Alright -- I'm going to allow his testimony.
He was away on an extended vacation and just returned two days ago.
Why didn't the State's investigation uncover Mr. Roston earlier?
Your Honor, Mr. Roston is an ex-lover of Miss Lawson's.
You get his statement?
Can I go?
Your Honor, I'm trying to establish a pattern in Dr. Paley's behavior with women.
Objection! May I remind Mr. Dulaney that the person on trial here is Miss Lawson -- not Dr. Paley.
Your Honor, I'm trying to establish the sense of betrayal Miss Lawson felt when she discovered the man she lived with was a different person than she thought he was.
Objection! Mr. Roston's sexual preferences are not at issue in this trial.
I'll rephrase the question. Mr. Roston isn't it true you are bisexual?
The opinion of a scorned lover is hardly an objective view.
Your Honor, Mr. Roston lived with the defendant for many months. I feel that his opinion is valid in substantiating the character of the Miss Lawson.
Objection. The question calls for a conclusion on the part of the witness.
The State's investigation just uncovered Mr. Roston yesterday afternoon in Chicago.
Your Honor, I don't see a Mr. Roston listed as a prosecution witness.
Her. It's an obvious move. I'm building a case against her, remember?
You've been following me?
Really? What does an attorney speak to his client about at her house until three o'clock in the morning?
You don't know what you're talking about.
I'm talking to you as a friend now. Don't ruin your life, your career for her. She'll spit you out when this is over.
Back off, John.
What's happening to you, Frank? You're acting like you're on trial here. This has become personal to you.
I didn't hear it.
Hey -- the bell's sounded. It's between rounds.
I've got work to do.
Your Honor -- please!
I'm just curious to see if Mr. Troxell reconstructed anything else.
Objection, Your Honor. The fact that Mrs. Crawford heard Mr. Troxell reconstruct her sentence and decided to rephrase her words in a more intelligent manner for the court doesn't mean the incident never happened.
I was just about to make my point, Your Honor.
Your Honor, I fail to see what Mrs Crawford's educational background has to do with this case.
Objection. Your Honor, we don't know where this tape is from. Who made it -- or under what circumstances it was made.
Your Honor, this is a tape from Miss Lawson's answering machine. I would like to play it now.
Yeah. Well -- we'll let the blindfolded lady with the scales decide that.
Aren't they all?
Then she's not as smart as I thought she was. You've seen her in the depositions. Tell me you don't have any doubts?
I'll tell her but she won't take it.
We're going all the way on this one, Frank. Tell your client she has until the prelim to cop a plea for murder two -- fifteen to twenty five.
I don't buy it and neither will a jury.
The M.E.'s report stated that Marsh's nasal membranes showed no sign of prior cocaine use. Without the nasal spray we would have still treated it as a poisoning. We would have looked for motive and the trail would have still led back to her.
Suspicions maybe -- but suspicions aren't enough for a conviction.
Because she's clever. Because she knows that even if we didn't find it we'd have suspicions as to why a man in Marsh's condition would use cocaine.
Why would she want that?
She planned this. She wanted us to find the nasal spray.
C'mon -- think about it. If she was going to kill Marsh why leave the nasal spray bottle there for the police to find?
You're bluffing. John, it's me, remember? I've known you since your name was Juan Carlos.
Take your pole out of the water, Frank. The fish ain't biting today.
You can't show intent.
Marsh left her close to three million dollars in his will. That's motive. She admits to being there the night of his death. That's opportunity -- and her fingerprints are on the nasal spray bottle.
Lookin' to make the papers, John?
No. Miss Lawson came in here voluntarily to answer your questions. She doesn't have to sit here and be insulted. So, either you charge her now or we're leaving.
Sit down, Frank.
That's it. My client doesn't have to take this crap from you.
That's correct -- but Andrew never told me he had a heart condition. He said he had a heart arrhythmia and it was nothing serious.
Mr. Marsh's Cardiologist and his nurse have told us that you accompanied Mr. Marsh to their office on at least two occasions.
Were you aware of Mr. Marsh's heart condition?
No. I haven't done it in years.
Did you use it the night Marsh died?
Miss Lawson, do you use cocaine?
What did Mr. Marsh say?
Did you talk about Miss Lawson?
Horrible. He was tired and pale.
How did he look?
Did you see Mr. Marsh the day before his death?
I opened the bathroom door one day and saw Miss Lawson pouring Cocaine out of a vial.
Tell the court about that, please.
What about Miss Lawson?
No -- never.
Did you ever see Mr. Marsh use Cocaine?
How long were you Mr Marsh's personal secretary?
No -- but I can get it for you.
You wouldn't know her address, would you?
I assume his girlfriend.
Do you know who Mr. Marsh was with?
I had some papers to pick up.
Why did you come by?
A little after eleven.
Miss Braslow -- I'm District Attorney John Cardenas. You arrived at what time tonight?
No. She stopped by to pick up some papers.
She was here?
His Secretary. Joanne Braslow.
Who found him?
Is it Marsh?
Doctor Steven Trammel. Cardiologist.
Just one last question. What does the sign on your office door say?
Did Miss Lawson ever accompany Mr. Marsh to your office?
He did everything he could to take care of his heart?
Yes -- he stopped smoking and drinking and exercised regularly.
Did Mr. Marsh change his lifestyle after that?
About a year and half ago.
Doctor Trammel, when did you first diagnose that Mr. Marsh had heart disease?
Thank you. The State rests.
Who was your primary beneficiary?
Did you change your will while you were with Miss Lawson?
I woke up the next morning and she was gone.
What happened after that?
I couldn't help myself. You get lost inside a women like her. It was like a drug. It was the best sex I ever had.
If you knew it was bad for you why did you do it?
She started touching herself and telling me how much she wanted me. She reached down and put me inside her. My doctor had warned me about exerting myself -- but you really don't think of those things at a moment like that. You just think about how beautiful this woman is -- how much you want her. How deeply you want to please her. At first it started off slowly -- but the rhythm built and built. Every time I got close to an orgasm she would stop. Eventually I started to have trouble breathing. Rebecca just kept going -- faster and faster. No matter what I said she wouldn't stop. I really thought for a moment I was going to die.
What did she do next, Mr. Roston?
She said she was going to fuck me like I've never been fucked before.
Mr. Roston I know this is difficult for you, but it's important you tell the court what she did.
What did she say?
She told me that tonight we were going to open new doors. I asked her to stop -- to take off the handcuffs, but she wouldn't listen.
She's a woman who is very much aware of her own sexuality. Sometimes I felt she could read my mind. It was uncanny how she knew exactly what I wanted. A few nights before my heart surgery Rebecca woke me. She had handcuffed me to the bed.
What would she do that made it hard to resist?
It's hard to resist a woman as beautiful as she is.
It was like sex was a game to her. She got off on the control. She always used to tell me it had to be her way.
Can you give the court an example?
It was like she was trying to push me as far as she could. She called it opening new doors.
When you say your sexual relations with Miss Lawson were intense what exactly do you mean?
Well -- I think that after the operation she realized that...
Why do you think she left you?
She didn't. She just left.
Why did she say she was leaving?
She left me.
How did your relationship with Miss Lawson progress after the surgery?
Fine. The doctors say if I keep taking care of myself I can live to be a very old man.
And how are you now?
I had bypass surgery.
What happened next?
I had a bad heart.
What kind of condition are you referring to?
It was wild. She was constantly trying to get me more and more worked up -- kinky things. I tried to satisfy her the best I could, but it was difficult in my condition.
I know this is a very personal subject, but could you be a little more specific?
How would you describe your sex life with Miss Lawson?
For about one year.
How long were you together?
We were lovers.
Mr. Roston, what was your relationship with Miss Lawson?
-- And what did you suggest?
She said that those weren't any good -- because their use would be detected and the police would know the victim had been poisoned. She wanted to know if there was a drug that would induce a heart attack but could also be used to enhance a sexual high.
What did she say?
Yes -- Insulin and others.
Did you suggest any?
She said that she was working on a novel and she wanted to know what kinds of drugs would be harmful to someone with a bad heart.
What kind of information?
Well -- I realized that she wasn't interested in me. She was just trying to get information out of me.
We stopped seeing each other.
What eventually happened to your relationship with Miss Lawson?
Yes -- several times.
Did you ever see her again after that?
At a dinner party -- about eight months ago.
Where did you meet Miss Lawson?
I mean she only screwed me two or three times a night because she had to -- I'm sure she didn't enjoy it.
I'm sure that every orgasm she had with me was faked.
You called him?
Don't you see what she's doing? She needs you to kill me. She's planned it that way from the start. That's why she phoned me tonight.
That's all Dr. Paley.
I may have been infatuated with her - - but I wouldn't perjure myself.
No further questions.
You can suggest anything you want. It happened.
I suggest it never happened.
No -- she asked me about cocaine.
You're still angry, aren't you? Isn't it true that your whole story is nothing more than a vindictive attempt on your behalf to get back at Miss Lawson?
I was angry.
You'll be sorry?
And after that didn't you continuously harass Miss Lawson?
And the argument was about the fact that you wanted to be romantically involved and she did not.
Well -- as I remember it, we had an argument.
If necessary I can bring in the valet parking attendant and two customers who witnessed the occurrence.
You didn't grab her and try to kiss her?
Isn't it true that later that night you tried to force yourself on Miss Lawson in the parking lot?
We had dinner at a restaurant.
Dr. Paley, where were you the last time you saw Miss Lawson?
No. No, I don't.
Then you have no way of knowing what Mr. Marsh told Miss Lawson were the reasons for his visits?
Did Miss Lawson ever accompany Mr. Marsh inside during his examinations?
Did Mr. Marsh ever tell you that he had spoken to Miss Lawson about his illness?
Dr. Trammel, did you ever speak to Miss Lawson about Mr. Marsh's condition?
Yes -- quite easy.
One last question, Doctor. If someone didn't know better, would it be easy to mistake the peony root for cocaine?
A previous witness stated that she saw Miss Lawson pouring a white powder into her hand on October twenty-eighth. According to your records when did you prescribe the drug?
I tell them to pour an amount the size of a quarter into the their hand and mix it with water.
How do you instruct your patients to take it?
It's a white powder that comes in a vial.
Would you describe for the court what Chinese peony root looks like?
Chinese peony root.
What did you prescribe for her?
Did you ever prescribe any medication for her cramps?
She suffers from severe menstrual cramps.
Why does she come to you?
Yes. I've been seeing her for over a year.
--And is Miss Lawson a patient of yours?
Dr. Wong -- what type of medicine do you practice?
What else did the District Attorney's Office tell you to say?
Then -- those are not your own words?
I heard him say it.
Did you go to college, Mrs. Crawford?
There was an inquiry. It was his word against mine. They believed him. I was fired.
While I was seeing Dr. Paley I mentioned to him one night that someone was stealing drugs from the third floor dispensary. Three days after I spoke to him in his office he went to the Head Nurse and told her he had witnessed me stealing drugs.
What happened next?
Do you remember his exact words?
He laughed -- and basically said he would decide when it was over.
What did he say?
Yes -- he did.
Did he make your life miserable?
He used to call me -- tell me that I couldn't just walk out on him. He said that if I didn't come back he'd make my life miserable.
-- And what did Dr. Paley do after you stopped seeing him?
I realized he wasn't serious. He was seeing other women -- asking other nurses at the hospital out, so I ended it.
Then what happened?
We dated for about a month last year.
What was the nature of your relationship with Dr. Paley.
I'm a nurse. I used to work at Roseburg Memorial Hospital. Dr. Paley's on staff there.
Where did you meet him?
Miss Sellers, do you know Dr. Alan Paley?
Because he called me.
Then why did you go see Mr. Koehler in the first place?
You didn't know about it before that?
To show you this. It's a letter from that lawyer, Koehler. He wrote it to me the day after I saw him. He's the one who told me I could get the money if Miss Lawson went to jail.
Why'd you come here?
I'm gonna go to jail. I know they're gonna make it look like I did it. They gotta put it on someone.
What do you think I've got? A gun? Maybe I'm gonna kill you too. Maybe I'll blow your head off right now.
What do you have in your purse?
You killed him -- didn't you, Joanne?
Then you would have gotten your money?
You take what people say and make it ugly. You make others believe what you want them to. She should have been found guilty. She shouldn't have gotten off.
Because you were jealous. Because he cut you out of the will. Because you have a cocaine habit to feed -- because you know that if Rebecca Lawson is found guilty the new will is void -- and there's a very good chance the old one would be honored.
No! Why would I want to kill him?
Isn't it true that you put the cocaine in the bottle?
Isn't it true that you stopped by the house after you left the drug store and dropped off the items you bought?
I don't know.
You see that's what bothers me. No other bottle of nasal spray was found in the house. The police looked. There was only the one bottle. But you say you didn't arrive until after Mr. Marsh was dead -- yet we know he was using the nasal spray prior to his death. How do you think it got there?
A.M -- or P.M.?
Would you read for us the time of the purchase?
Dristan nasal spray.
There's an item you picked up that's marked. Will you read it?
Well - I'm a little confused. This is a charge receipt from Rosen's Drug Store where Mr. Marsh had an account. It's dated the day of the murder. Is this your signature?
Two hundred and fifty thousand dollars is a lot of money. That must have made you pretty angry?
She talked him into it. She wanted everything.
In his previous will Mr. Marsh left you two hundred and fifty thousand dollars -- then he cut you out. Why do you think he did that?
--and that he changed his will?
--And that Mr. Marsh paid less attention to you?
And you resented that he cared for her in a way he once cared for you?
You resented the fact that she told you what to do in Mr. Marsh's house?
You don't like her because you were involved with Mr. Marsh before she came along. Isn't that true?
You don't like Miss Lawson much do you?
I've been to a few -- yes.
You've tried it? Isn't it true that you've been in and out of Rehab centers for the last four years?
I've tried it.
Money isn't the only reason people commit murder, Miss Braslow.
I'm a practical woman Mr. Dulaney. Killing Andrew wasn't in my best interest. As it is I'm out of a job and I'm not in his will.
I was jealous. Of course I was hurt. He switched me off like a little toy he was finished playing with. But I didn't kill him.
It must have been horrible. Having to go there -- seeing them together - - knowing he was sleeping with her in the same bed he did with you.
You're lying. Marsh was wearing a cast on the tape. It was right before he went to Chicago and met Miss Lawson. He dumped you for her, didn't he?
Yes, I slept with him but that was a long time ago.
I thought he was a kind, gentle man?
He video taped you.
Who told you that?
Yes. I suppose it's possible.
Well, think about it. Isn't it possible?
I don't know. I'm not sure.
So, isn't it possible that he was confiding in you about the pain he was feeling about losing what might be his last chance for love? That what he really was saying was that the uncertainty of her leaving was driving him crazy and if it didn't stop it was going to kill him. That if she did leave his heart couldn't take it.
So, the woman he loved passionately was thinking about leaving. That must cause tremendous anxiety. Sleepless nights. Incredible stress.
Yes -- he mentioned it.
Didn't Mr. Marsh also tell you that Miss Lawson felt bored here and was thinking about going back to Chicago for awhile?
He said that if it kept up she was going to kill him. That his heart couldn't take it.
Could you repeat the last part of what Mr. Marsh said to you the day before his death?
Yes-- It was on a Friday. I remember because I was going to visit my sister for her birthday. It would be October twenty-eighth.
Do you remember the date when you saw Miss Lawson in the bathroom?
What other kind of white powder do people keep in a vial?
How do you know it was cocaine that Miss Lawson had in the bathroom?
I was at the house one morning -- I thought Miss Lawson was upstairs with Mr. Marsh. When I went into the guest bathroom she was standing in front of the mirror pouring this white powder out of a vial.
How do you know that?
Yes -- cocaine.
What about Miss Lawson?
Did Mr. Marsh use drugs?
I wasn't lookin' through the keyhole if that's what you're thinking. I'd come to house sometimes to pick up papers or speak to Andrew. I'd find their little toys all over the place.
How do you know what kind of sex they had?
Andrew was a kind and gentle man, but he was thirty years older than her. Where's the attraction to sleep with someone like that -- to have the kind of sex they had.
If you don't know her that well what makes you think she's capable of murder?
I really don't know her that well. We would say hello to each other when I would come to the house, but that was about it.
I take it you don't like Miss Lawson very much?
I don't know. It's incredible to think that anyone could be capable of doing that -- but if anyone could it would be Rebecca.
You don't really believe what the district attorney is saying about Miss Lawson, do you?
He did. Look, I know you can lead a horse to water but you can't make him drink -- but you hold a pail of water in front of an old horse for long enough -- and well...
I worked for Mr. Marsh for six years. He was a good man -- until she came along.
I'm not asking for names or specifics. I just want to know what prompted you to make the call?
You know I can't talk about that.
I need to ask you a question. What made you get in touch with Joanne Braslow?
Frank -- what are you doing here?
No further questions.
Would it be fair to say that when she did find out it was a shock to her?
And she left shortly after that?
And didn't Miss Lawson come home one day and find you in bed with your male lover?
And your sexual tastes were something that you hid from Miss Lawson?
Don't listen to him. Can't you see he's trying to turn you against me.
How's it supposed to work Rebecca? You and Paley celebrate your victory. You get me over here and provoke a fight so he has to rush in and save you -- but then he's given himself away as your accomplice -- now he has to kill me. After that I figure she'll tell the Police that you broke in. That you were crazed because we humiliated you in court?
No -- he's lying.
She's right, Paley. You've got to kill me. She doesn't have to -- she's free -- she can't be tried again -- but you, you planned it with her. You supplied the Coke. You're an accessory to murder.
Don't push me, Frank. I might lose my temper and send it out just for spite.
I'm not leaving without that tape.
So, sue me. Things have changed. I think you should go home -- and after you leave I see no reason for us to ever have contact again.
That wasn't the deal.
I've been thinking about that. I've decided to give it to you after I've collected the inheritance. You can take that one if you want -- but there's another copy.
You killed him. You killed him -- and I got you off.
Frank -- It's Rebecca. I need to see you right away. I've got the tape.
No -- I'm a survivor.
You're a monster.
You can think whatever you want, Frank -- but I didn't kill Andrew, and I'm not going to prison for something I didn't do.
No -- you're not.
I'm dropping the case.
I do need you. No matter what you think of me -- I didn't do it.
You don't need anybody.
I knew you were thinking that. I could see it in your eyes today in the courtroom. You're wrong, Frank. I need you to believe that.
You killed him -- didn't you?
You're too weak, Frank. When you want something you have to do what- ever it takes to get it. If something gets in your way you remove it.
He was only doing what he thought was right.
Fuck him! He tried to shatter mine.
Rebecca -- we shattered a man's life in open court.
To celebrate how masterfully you destroyed Roston today.
What's that for?
Are you scared?
What are you going you doing?
Tonight we open new doors.
Rebecca -- take these off.
Sugar or honey?
What does that mean? You've been thinking about the case? Or you thought everything out before you killed Marsh?
Don't worry about Paley. He can't touch me. No one can. I've thought it all out.
I'm glad you have such confidence in me.
I'm sure you'll be able to handle him.
Paley could be a problem tomorrow.
You can see me now.
Can I see you later?
It's only the beginning.
You were brilliant today.
I went out on the boat.
I called you all weekend. Where were you?
I don't know, Frank -- but don't you think that's something we should find out?
Why would she lie?
I don't use cocaine anymore. If she says she saw me doing it she's lying.
No, I don't have to believe you. The jury has to believe you and answers like he's lying or she's mistaken aren't going to convince them.
It isn't true. You have to believe me.
That's not good enough, Goddamit!
I just left Joanne Braslow. She told me she saw you doing cocaine at Marsh's house!
You lied to me!
You take a lot for granted.
There's nothing wrong in admitting that you want me, Frank.
No -- that's what I know you were thinking.
Is that what you think I was thinking?
You and me -- making love.
Yes -- it would be nice.
It's hard to let go of a dream, isn't it? To let go of what you want?
I broke my ankle skating. That ended that dream.
That seems so far away from who you are now. What happened?
No -- I wanted to be a professional hockey player.
Did you always want to be a lawyer?
It won't be that hard.
It's going to be hard to convince a jury that he's testifying against you in a murder trial because you blew him off.
I hardly know him. He wanted me and he couldn't have me.
Tell me about Doctor Paley?
Andrew loved this old cabin. He always dreamed about moving to Tahiti -- living in a hut and becoming a beach-bum. I could never imagine myself doing that -- but somehow when he talked about it, he made it sound so alive - - so wonderful. Soft ocean breezes and beautiful sunsets -- leaving the world and it's problems behind. I wish he'd had a chance to do it.
No -- not at the office. I've got a better idea.
Great. I'll see you at the office at nine.
Yes -- she did.
I just wanted to see if my secretary called to confirm your appointment tomorrow.
Hi. It's Frank.
Not true. Shall I tell you what you were thinking? You were wondering if I was wearing anything under my skirt.
Tastes can change.
It's not my taste.
That's not an answer.
Oh -- Well, they're different.
I'm the photographer.
I think the photographer's probably a voyeur.
What do you think?
No -- it just doesn't look right.
Is it against the law?
Because, I'm your attorney. I shouldn't be going to your house.
This is your house.
Sure. Where to?
Can we get out of here?
Why didn't you live together?
We started talking. In fact, we talked until four in the morning. We discovered we shared a lot of the same interests. After that we were together all the time until he left. He used to call me every night after he came back. Then after a few weeks he invited me to come visit him. I've never left.
-- And then?
I was at a cocktail party. Very trendy. Andrew was in Chicago on business. He had broken his wrist the week before and was wearing it in a sling. He looked so helpless.
How'd you meet Marsh?
Because -- somehow the fruit always tasted that much sweeter because of the pain it took to get to it.
If you had what you wanted at home why did you sneak into their yard?
When I was growing up we had a strawberry patch in our backyard. So did this family down the road. I used to sneak in their yard and steal their strawberries. It wasn't easy. The stone walls were high and I'd scrape my knees as I climbed over. On the other side were wild rose bushes. The thorns would dig into my legs and cut my thighs as I lowered myself down.
Because -- it's beyond intellect. It's emotion. It's passion. It has to be experienced -- it can't be imagined.
I don't know if it's something I can explain to you.
As it pertains to you -- not me. Did you always know you had different... tastes?
I thought the subject was sex?
I think we're getting a little off the subject here.
We're not animals.
Something like that.
No pain, no gain?
Have you ever seen animals make love, Mr. Dulaney? They have such passion -- such savage emotion. They struggle, and snarl, and claw, but neither hurts the other. Not really.
I am who I am. I can't deny it, anymore than you can deny who you are. I like sex different -- I like it wild. That's not a crime. I loved Andrew. We made love together. We made it differently, but we still made love. It was our way. It was private -- and now the whole world wants to look in through the pretense of justice. If I was some middle-aged divorcee who screwed him once a week do you think this would be happening to me?
Those same men will be sitting on the jury.
I'm used to being on the outside looking in. The same men who will publicly profess their moral outrage for my sexual tastes are the same ones who privately rest their sweaty little hands on my legs and talk about weekend trips together.
This is a very small town -- people here have very straight views on sex.
Andrew hardly needed leading. He was a very passionate man. He was eager to explore. I gave him what he wanted. We fulfilled each others needs.
I want you to know right now that the trial's going to be nasty. Your sex life is going to be dragged through the mud. They're going to say that you enticed Marsh -- led him down a dark path.
I'll have you out in a few hours.
You still haven't answered my question.
He'll file. He's an ambitious man. Ambitious men build their careers on the bodies of others.
You're assuming the District Attorney is going to file charges.
And that's exactly what the jury will see when they look at me. That's why I need a very good lawyer, Mr. Dulaney.
Not a very good one I'm afraid.
You must have some feeling. Some immediate impression. A young, attractive woman, involved with an older man who leaves her everything in his will. And the things that went on in that house. Such wild sex. What kind of picture does that paint?
I don't know. That's why I'm asking you.
Do you think I did it?
There are no charges against you. I'm here to decide if I'm going to represent you should that occur. Did you kill him?
Are you going to represent me?
She's waiting in the conference room.
Alright, I'll talk to her
Well, I guess that makes you the best. Look, Frank -- she stands to inherit three million dollars. As executors of the estate and her attorneys that could generate a lot of legal fees for us. All I'm asking you to do is talk to her.
Raymond, I'm the only criminal attorney you have.
Because I told her you were the best criminal attorney we have.
I know -- but she wants you to represent her if Cardenas files.
I'm supposed to be on vacation.
We've already got press arriving from over the country and she hasn't even been charged yet. Cardenas wants to see her in his office tomorrow at ten. I'd like you to go with her.
Andrew Marsh was a very wealthy man. A trial like this is going to put Cardenas in the spot-light.
I gotta go. I'll call you later.
I know what day it is! Get off the phone.
-- But it's Sunday.
Because I'm expecting a call.
Michael -- get off the phone.
I love you too, Dad.
I love you.
Is Mom yelling at you too?
Well, that's kind of how I am right now.
You know how it is sometimes when you're out playing ball with your friends? How you're really concentrating on what you're doing -- and you lose track of time and you come home late and Mom yells at you?
She allegedly humped him to death?
Hey, you know better than that. What did I teach you to say when someone is accused of doing something?
The kids at school say she humped Mr. Marsh to death.
What are they saying?
You better. Please answer the question.
I can back it up.
Are you able to back up this allegation -- or are you fishing?
Your Honor -- the prosecution has introduced cocaine as one of the contributing reasons Mr. Marsh died. How it may have been introduced into the household is of vital importance.
How often do you use cocaine?
Miss Braslow, I'd like to remind you that you are still under oath.
The witness will answer the question.
Mr. Cardenas, I suggest you move on to another line of questioning.
Objection. The witness has already stated that Miss Lawson left without an explanation.
That's it, Mr. Dulaney. Take a seat.
But Your Honor--
Maybe you don't know what it's like where Mrs. Crawford comes from -- but I do. I came from a neighborhood just like hers. This is a whole other world for her. She's a poor working woman who has been thrust into a room full of highly educated and mostly unsympathetic people. So, she puts on her best dress, fixes her hair and tries to present herself as intelligently as possible. Being poor and having pride is not a crime, Mr. Dulaney -- and before you attempt to impeach another witness' testimony in my courtroom -- your foundations better be based on something other than semantics.
No, Your Honor.
Mr. Dulaney, before you cast aspersions on the District Attorney's Office by suggesting they've coaxed this witness to say things that aren't true -- you better have more than a hunch. Do you?
"Discourteous insinuations about his sexual abilities." Who told you to say that?
Do it quickly, Mr. Dulaney.
Is this what you want -- huh? Is it?
Frank -- stop it! Stop it!
I don't want our lives ruined because of this. I love you, Frank. I want this to work -- but you have to help me. You have to come back from where ever it is you are.
You think that's the answer? Sex? Is that what you want? You want me to make love to you?
It was a place to start.
It's more involved than that.
You used to like to touch me -- to make love to me.
I don't know.
Why didn't you come to me?
Please -- not now.
We can't pretend this isn't happening.
You wouldn't like what you'd see. You don't know me anymore. I don't know me anymore.
Talk to me.
Maybe it would be a good idea if you just took Michael.
I was thinking that when the trial is over we'd all go skiing for a weekend.
It's bad enough that you are. It's even worse that you can stand here and lie to me.
You're sleeping with her, aren't you?
This isn't a courtroom. Don't try to turn this around on me.
Because I knew you'd think exactly what you're thinking.
Why did you lie to me?
Charlie called at eleven thirty looking for you. You were with her, weren't you?
Working. Charlie and I were going over some statements.
Where have you been?
Sharon, it's late. Can we get to the point?
That's what I was hoping you'd tell me.
We have to talk.
Yeah -- what are you doing up?
Yeah -- fine. Excuse me. I'll be right back.
Is that alright, Frank?
No one's asking you not to work. I just think you could make some time for your son.
Because I go to trial in seven weeks. I've got a lot of preparing to do.
Why don't you talk to him now?
I'll talk to him later.
Frank -- I know you're busy, but Michael asked me after dinner if you were angry with him. He wanted to know why you weren't talking to him.
I can think of worse ways to go--
Yeah -- but can she cook?
She sounds like quite a woman.
Attractive. Bright. Distant. Charming when she wants to be.
What's she like?
I don't know yet. I want to hear what she says at her statement tomorrow.
If he files are you going to take the case?
He must have something or he wouldn't be pressing so hard.
How can Cardenas possibly think he can build a case against two consenting adults?
Some example you set.
I swear -- the both of you. Some example you set.
He could let you have your vacation.
I know. What can I do? He is the boss.
We're supposed to go to the lake.
Hello?... Hi Raymond.... What?... Well, I was sort of planning on... Alright... Okay, goodbye. That was Sattler. He thinks the D.A.'s going to file on Rebecca Lawson. He wants me in the office tomorrow morning.
No -- it has to be done by tomorrow.
Can't it wait?
I'm always open to learning new things.
If you want me to.
And I suppose you're going to show me how to relax?
This is not relaxing.
I am relaxing.
You're on vacation, remember? You're supposed to be relaxing.
Daddy -- stop it!
Let me go! Godammit, Frank let go!
Don't use language like that at the dinner table.
Not even if they're a dork. You should go by and see how he's feeling.
Not even if they're a dork?
Michael, you shouldn't be happy when someone else isn't feeling well.
No, it's not. Now I get to pitch.
That's too bad.
Albert's got the stomach flu.
It didn't get there from me.
It had to get there somehow.
No -- never.
Did Marsh use it?
Six thirty -- and he was very much alive.
What time did you leave?
We have a witness who saw you go into the house at four thirty.
I didn't know that Andrew was dead until Mr. Sattler called me at home that night.
I said NO!
Well, I can help.
Well, there's a lot of boring stuff to do. Lists of people we have to write to. Find mama's relatives addresses in Italy -- stuff like that.
I don't mind waiting.
Why are there two deeds here?
It's a beautiful picture of her.
Doesn't matter. Move on.
Maybe it's an Italian thing. Their mother was Italian.
We're not doing it! I'm not even sure it's Christian.
Not to mention people driving over her and doggies doing their business --
Well, no one in my family did! Dad bought cemetery plots at Oak Ridge. One for him, one for mom.
My Jewish friend's grandmother did.
I simply can not stand that tone!
You said it in that tone! Like you were angry at me, my brother, at the world for forcing you to eat a nice lunch!
Well, why don't I just say black so you can say white! Don't be surprised to find your brother hasn't changed an iota. He hardly ever talks and when he does it's in that tone! You should have heard him at lunch -- not two words until the bill came and then he says, "Worth every penny."
It's not that long.
Well, that's a long time.
We were here two Christmases ago.
Boy. It sure has been a long time.
Then we should have had lunch at the bank.
Michael doesn't understand. People who make the kind of money my brother makes don't carry money on them. They keep it all in various accounts.
I nearly died when we split the bill.
No, we just had lunch at the hotel with my brother and his new wife. She told me all the dirt. I forgot how interesting things can get around here. It was so good to see them. The last time we visited they were in Europe. He is doing so well. He ordered champagne. For lunch! I nearly died.
No. You can have them.
Carolyn -- you want these candlesticks?
I do not need instructions from you to bathe! I knew you'd do this! I knew I'd come all the way here and be shut out as usual! I came to be here for you! I didn't have to come! Lord knows I was never much welcome in this house before. Apparently dead or alive, nothing's changed.
No treasure maps, huh?
Oh, just a old letter from a friend.
Mr. Peterson, are you sure mama wrote all this?
I know. I don't understand it either.
I'm sure you haven't done anything. Have some iced tea. How are the kids?
I am so sick and tired of apologizing and not knowing what I've done!
You're right -- that is sick.
What about me! I feel really weird. Like she cheated on me, not dad. Isn't that sick? I don't mean I wanted to sleep with her or anything but -- ya know -- being the only son. You're sort of made to feel like you're the prince of the kingdom, ya know? And in the back of your mind, you kind of think your mother doesn't need sex anymore because she has you.
-- for over twenty years because that's what I was taught -- you stick with it! Normal people don't get divorced. I can't remember the last time my husband made love to me so intensely that he transported me to Europe, for Christ's sake -- quite frankly, I don't think he ever did! And now I find out in between bake sales, my mother was Anais Nin!
What gets me is I'm 46 years old. I've been in this crummy fucking marriage -
Only about a thousand times. What do I do now? "What's good enough for mom is good enough for me?"
Did we want to?
Everything was during Betty. God we were so young. Why did we think we had to do it all so fast? I've never cheated on Betty. Not once we were married, I mean.
Was this during Betty?
I never knew that.
Not officially. Her and Steve Kendall were pinned at birth. But I was crazy about her. And for about three months, I managed to catch her during her "exploring" stage.
You never dated Kathy Reynolds!
I used to love this place. I used to take Kathy Reynolds down here.
I think I better. Between the book and the coffee, I'm this close to raping the busboy.
Not yet. You want to go?
Boy. All these years I've resented not living the wild life in some place like Paris and all the time I could've moved back to Iowa... Are you drunk?
I bet mom could've helped her.
You mean -- she didn't like sex?
He remarried. Apparently they were having an affair for years. Apparently the first Mrs. Delaney was a bit of a stiff.
Yeah. But I thought she died.
I found out who Lucy Delaney is. Remember the Delaneys from Hillcrest Road?
Have you called Betty? Maybe you should.
Bar across the street.
And do what? Live alone? Go back to school? Find someone else? Start a magazine for confused woman? ... What if I can't do any of those things?
Then why do you?
Oh, don't feel sorry for me. Please. No one's forcing me to stay.
I had no idea it's gotten that bad, sis.
I don't think so. Not yet anyway. And besides, something like that doesn't make you a bad person. He reminds me of Steve in a way. Steve's weak, immoral and a liar but he's still a real nice guy. He just shouldn't be married. At least not to me. You getting hungry? I'm hungry.
Nice? He's trying to sleep with somebody's wife.
Oh, he did not. He's such a nice guy.
He's getting her drunk. That's what happened. Jesus, maybe he forced himself. That's why she couldn't tell us.
STOP IT! I want to read them! If you don't want to, then just leave. But don't you push me around like I'm some mule you paid for -- I already GOT A HUSBAND!
No. We're going to lock this up and --
Well, I'd like to read them.
This is crazy. She waits till she's dead to tell us all this. Well, I got news for you. She was my mother. That's enough for me. I don't have to know who she was.
What are you doing?
"... It's all there in the three notebooks. Read them in order. If you don't want to, I suppose that's okay too. But in that case I want you to know something -- I never stopped loving your father. He was a very good man. It's just that my love for Robert was different. He brought out something in me no one had ever brought out before, or since. He made me feel like a woman in a way few women, maybe more, ever experience..."
Sshhh. "After going through the safety deposit box, I'm sure you'll find you're way to this letter. It's hard to write this to my own children. I could let this die with the rest of me, I suppose. But as one gets older, one fears subside. What becomes more and more important is to be known -- known for all that you were during this brief stay. Row said it seems to me to leave this earth without hose you love the most ever really knowing who you were. It's easy for a mother to love her children no matter what -- it's something that just happens. I don't know if it's as simple for children. You're all so busy being angry at us for raising you wrong. But I thought it was important to give you that chance. To give you the opportunity to love me for all that I was..."
I can't believe she's making jokes.
No, I don't think so. I --
How did she meet him? Did Dad know? Anything else in that envelope?
I can't believe she never told me? We spoke at least once a week. How could she do that?
Well, what am I supposed to think?
Don't say that!
Don't talk to me like that. She was my mother for Christsakes. And now I find out she was... She was a --!
My Lord. It must feel real nice living inside your head with Peter Pan and the Easter Bunny.
This happened way before we both got married. I... I can't believe it. You think she had sex with him?
I don't know. I'm completely in the dark here. That's what I get for moving away.
Wait a minute! That was thirty years after daddy. Do you think...?
DAMN HIM! I knew mama wouldn't have thought of that herself. It was some damn perverted... photographic mind influencing her! When did the bastard die?
That he be cremated and his ashes thrown on Roseman Bridge.
That would be some trick. He's already dead. That's what this other letter is. From his attorney. He left most of his things to mama and requested...
Robert! Jesus! I'll kill him.
Well, he just gets on about how if mama ever needed him, she could find him through the National Geographic magazine. He as a photographer. He promises not to write again. Then all it says is... I love you... Robert.
What's he saying now?
Goddamn sonofabitch! I don't want to hear anymore! Sonofabitch! Burn the damn thing! I don't want to hear it! Throw it away!
"-- going over and over in my mind every detail, every moment of our time together and I ask myself, "What happened to me in Madison County?" I struggle to put it together in a way that allows me to continue knowing we're on separate roads. But then I look through the lens of my camera, and you're there. I start to write an article and I find myself writing it to you. It's clear to me now we have been moving towards each other, towards those four days, all our lives --
Come here a minute.
Well, I don't care if it's legal or not, we're not cremating her and throwing her all over some bridge where we can't even go visit her because she's going to be blown all over the place like an ashtray.
I remember a Mrs. Delaney but Mama told me years ago she died.
Well, there's a problem.
I thought everything WAS arranged.
He's not coming.
He dropped them off at Betty's mom. Where's Steve?
I have some sandwich fixings if you're hungry.
Explain to me again why we didn't do this in Des Moines in an air conditioned office?
No. What a tragedy. What happened?
My niece had "the changes" when she was thirty-one.
She used to be so friendly.
I'd laugh first then I'd kill them. Make sure they heard me laughing.
I'd kill him. Him and that Redfield woman. Together. First one then the other. And then I'd laugh.
See. Money don't buy happiness. I must say, she's taking it well.
Mrs. Delaney. Did you hear the latest?
Don't talk about what you don't know. Besides, she's too young for "the changes."
Well, I didn't know they was a secret club.
What do you know about "the changes"?
Oh, shut up! It's the woman who's in control of these situations. Men don't know which end is up till a woman points.
Well, nobody put a gun to his head.
I'll get right on it.
Heat is not heat! There's different kinds! And this heat is much hotter than what they got in Michigan. You go and call your brother and see if he don't say the same thing.
Heat is heat.
Not this kind of heat.
They got heat in Michigan.
Oh, this heat! Times like this I wish we took that offer from your brother and moved on up to Michigan.
Oh, that'll be nice.
No, leave it. I'll do it later. Listen, maybe you and Floyd can come for dinner on Saturday. I'm sure Richard'll have so many stories to tell you both about the fair and all.
No, of course not. I'll just clean up.
No, no. I just didn't sleep well. I'm not used to sleeping alone. And this heat. Would you mind?
You want me to call the doctor?
I don't know. I woke up a little dizzy. I didn't sleep well. I think I need to lay down.
Oh, honey. I'm so sorry. But you've got to be grateful for even feeling the little you've be given. Believe me. Go to him. Don't let him leave without these new precious hours you've got left. And if you need anyone to cry on, you know where I am.
Madge. Please. Something's happened. I've met someone. I've fallen in love in a way I've never thought could happen my entire life. It's our last day together. I feel like I'm going to die when he leaves. Please. Help me.
Hi. I made some brown betty. I sent Floyd off to town with the boy. I said - "Floyd, I'm going to visit my girlfriend and spend the afternoon and that's all there is to it. He said who's going to make lunch? I said I'm taking a sick day. Eat at the dinner." Isn't that hilarious? He didn't dare raise an eyebrow -- I don't even want to tell you how late he was out last night with those good for nothings from the Sandford ranch. I am so sorry, honey, I let two days pass before I came by, but with the boy home the time just escapes me. Have you heard from Richard? How's the fair? God, it's hot.
Robert, if that happens, you'll have to decide. I won't be able to.
I CAN'T SAY GOODBYE YET! We'll leave it for now. We're not saying goodbye. We're not making any decision. Maybe you'll change your mind. Maybe we'll accidentally run into each other and ... and you'll change your mind.
No. Don't do this.
I'm going to be here a few more days. I'll be at the Inn. We have some time. Let's not say any more now.
I don't know. Please...
I want to keep it forever. I want to love you the way I do now the rest of my life. Don't you understand -- we'll lose it if we leave. I can't make an entire life disappear to start a new one. All I can do is try to hold onto to both. Help me. Help me not lose loving you.
But now that you have it -
Robert. Please. You don't understand -- no one does. When a woman makes the choice to marry, to have children -- in one way her life begins but in another way it stops. You build a life of details. You become a mother, a wife and you stop and stay steady so that your children can move. And when they leave they take your life of details with them. And then you're expected move again only you don't remember what moves you because no one has asked in so long. Not even yourself. You never in your life think that love like this can happen to you.
TO HELL WITH YOU!
We are the choices we've made, Robert.
Francesca, listen to me. You think what's happened to us happens to just anybody? What we feel for each other? How much we feel? We're not even two separate people anymore. Some people search their whole lives for it and wind up alone -- most people don't even think it exists and you're going to tell me that giving it up is the right thing to do? That staying here alone in a marriage, alone in a town you hate, in a house you don't feel apart of anymore -- you're telling me that's the right thing to do!?
No matter how much distance we put between us and this house, I bring with it with me. And I'll feel it every minute we're together. And I'll blame loving you for how much it hurts. And then even these four days won't be anything more than something sordid and... a mistake.
Yeah. It could get better.
You've got to know deep down that the minute we leave here. It'll all change.
What about us? What about me?
No, they don't say much. But Carolyn's 16. She's just about to find out about all this for herself -- she's going to fall in love, she's going to try and figure out how to build a life with someone. If I leave what does that say to her?
The kids are grown! They don't need you anymore. You told me that. They hardly talk to you.
His family's lived for almost a hundred years. Richard doesn't know how to live anywhere else. And the kids...
Then he can move! People move!
For anyone. They'll never be able to live through the talk. Richard will never be able to. He doesn't deserve that. He hasn't hurt anyone in his life.
No matter how I keep turning it around in my mind -- it doesn't seem like the right thing.
What makes it different, Robert?
If I've done anything to make you think that what's happened between us is nothing new for me -- is some routine -- then I do apologize.
WHAT DOES THAT HAVE TO DO WITH IT?
BECAUSE I CAN'T HAVE YOU!
I DON'T WANT TO NEED YOU!
You won't be made to feel! Period. You've carved out this little part for yourself in the world where you get to be a voyeur, a hermit and a lover whenever you feel like it and the rest of us are just supposed to feel so incredibly grateful for the brief time you've touched our lives! Well, go to hell! It isn't human not to feel lonely -- it isn't human not to afraid! You're a hypocrite and you're a phony!
I won't be made to feel like I've done something wrong.
No one's asking you to!
I told you! I won't apologize for who I am.
Fine. More eggs or should we just fuck on the linoleum one last time?
I don't want you to say anything. I don't need you to say anything.
What do you want me to say?
You have no idea what you've done to me, do you? And after you leave, I'm going to have to wonder for the rest of my life what happened here. If anything happened at all! And I'll have to wonder if you find yourself in some... housewife's kitchen in Romania if you'll sit there and tell her about your world of good friends and secretly include me in that group.
I know you! What can this possibly mean to anyone who doesn't "need" meaning - "Who goes with the Mystery" -- who pretends he isn't scared to death.
How do you know what I experience?
Gee, I don't know. I guess I'm not cut out to be a World Citizen who experiences everything and nothing at the same time.
What are you doing?
Yes. Absolutely. You have this habit of not needing and that it's hard to break. I understand. Of course, in that case, why sleep -- you don't need rest or for that matter eat, you don't need food.
I was honest with you. I told you who I was.
To do what? Be with someone who needs everyone and no one in particular? I mean, what would be the point. Would you pass the butter?
Well, why is that up to me? You're the one who's married. You told me you have no intention of leaving your husband.
Well, what is this?
Routine! I don't have a routine. And if you think that's what this is -
Well, I just want to know the procedure. I don't want to upset your routine. Do you want any jam?
I... What do you want?
Well, these... women friends of yours... all over the world. How does it work? Do you see some of them again? Do you forget others? Do you write them now and then? How do you manage it?
Good. More coffee? Robert, I hope you don't mind my asking, but I feel like I should.
Sleep all right?
Am I too heavy for you?
Long day. Go to sleep.
I don't know why I'm so tired all of a sudden.
Across the street. She went into the park and got turned around and didn't know her way out.
Where was she?
You're right, you know. We don't have much time.
Just that it's been a perfect day and that I'd like to skip my fancy dessert and go home after this.
You're somewhere else, where?
Try and live a lifetime before Friday. Cram it all in.
I can't do this, honey.
What were your parents like?
I had a temper.
I just wondered. Why were you trouble?
What were you like when you were younger?
No, I don't mind.
But you don't mind.
Because I already tried once.
Why do you say that?
No. I couldn't.
I bet you could do a book.
He's a genius. They're not photographs -- they're stories, entire histories captured in moments.
On that one is beautiful. Look at their expressions. As if the camera weren't on them at all. As if they had no strength left to hide what they were feeling.
I sat there once. It was hot. Like today. I'd been shopping. I had all these bags around my feet I kept having to move every time the waiter came by...
Near the church.
Where? Near the doorway or the near the front of the church?
I sat outside and had coffee.
And arraccinos and zeppolis. Yes! I know it!
Nobody's asking you to.
Why!? Because, I'm having thoughts I hardly know what to do with. I... can't seem to... stop them.
I just feel like I'm getting a little ... out of control that's all. It's kind of frightening.
It's okay. It's not that hot anymore. Thanks God.
Oh, I'm sorry.
You know that little place nearby with the striped awning that sells sandwiches and little pizzas...
Have you ever been to that station?
Yes. Tell me about the day you got off the train.
How about Bari?
How about Italy?
Right now. Tell me someplace you've been -- someplace on the other side of the world. Anywhere but here.
Take me somewhere.
Are you hungry?
You want to eat something?
No. I can't. Not yet.
Are you comfortable? Do you... want to move to the bedroom?
Yes, that'd be nice.
Would you like a beer for your bath?
How about if I set the table?
Actually, no. I've got everything under control. I'd like to clean up myself a bit. I'm going to take a bath. Dinner'll be ready in about a half hour.
Can I help?
Couple. Want to help?
Fine. They're all having a good time. How many more shots do you have?
Oh, how is he?
Sorry I'm late. Richard called.
I want you to come.
I understand. That's very kind of you.
I now know more about their affair than I remember about my marriage. Francesca, the last thing I want to do is put you in any kind of situation that would... even though we know it's just -- I mean, it's nothing like that, but if anybody saw us or...
I think he's running for town crier next year.
The cashier at the general store was very dangerous.
Oh. I guess you got the whole story.
I uh... I had lunch in town today. Happened to cross paths with "that Redfield woman." I apologize. I thought you were half-joking about that.
Listen, don't take this the wrong way but, I'm wondering if this is such a good idea.
Oh, hi. Look, I'm running a little late, but I'll still...
Yeah. See you later.
Okay. See you later.
No. I'll drive myself. I have a few errands. I'll meet you there.
I'll pick you up.
Oh, sure. Great.
Listen, I have to shoot Cedar Bridge until a little after sunset. I want a few night shots. Would you like to come with me? If you're interested...
I would love to come for dinner.
The light was fading. Huh-huh.
I'm sorry I didn't call sooner, but I just read your note. I stuffed it into my pocket. The light was fading and I had to get my shot.
No. I was just... No.
Am I interrupting anything?
... I feel like something's been spoiled now.
No, no. Forgive me. I made a mistake. It was an inappropriate thing to ask.
Listen, I'm sorry I --
I already apologized.
I thought we were just having a conversation. You seem to be reading all this meaning into it. Meanings I must be too simple to, uh... interpret or something.
I thought that's what we were doing -- asking questions.
What made you ask such a question?
My mistake. I apologize.
Do you want to leave your husband?
Just because someone chooses to settle down and have a family doesn't necessarily mean they're hypnotized. Just because I've never seen a gazelle stampede doesn't mean I'm asleep in the world.
I'm a little sick of this American Family Ethic everyone seems to be hypnotized by in this country. I guess you think I'm just some poor displaced soul doomed to roam the earth without a self-cleaning oven and home movie.
No, I'm just saying --
That's not what you're saying. I know it's not the same. What you're saying is, it's not as good. Or it's not as normal or proper.
But it's not the same.
No. But I love them just the same.
But no one in particular.
I told you, I love other people.
But -- how can you just live for what you want? What about other people?
Not everybody's supposed to have a family.
Do you ever regret not having a family?
Do you ever regret it? The divorce, I mean.
I embrace Mystery. I don't know what's coming. And I don't mind.
Why doesn't it scare you?
No, I think I need everyone! I love people. I want to meet them all! I just think there are too many out there saying "This is mine." or "She's mine." Too many lines have been drawn. World's breaking apart because of man's weakness for some testosterone conquests over territory and power and people. He wants control over what deep down he knows he has no control over whatsoever and it scares him silly.
You really don't need anyone?
I'm a loner, I'm not a monk.
Woman friends, too?
Never touch the stuff. I've got friends all over the world. Good friends I can see when I want, if I want.
You must get lonely at times.
I never got lost. For some reason, I'm more at home everywhere than at one place. So I decided I'll think of myself as some kind of world citizen. I belong everywhere and nowhere. I'm kin to everyone, and no one in particular. See, once you get into the habit of not needing anyone, it's kind of hard to break.
So what happened?
Not at all. I wasn't around much... So why did I get married? Well, I thought it was a good idea at the time. Have a home base. Roots. You can get lost moving around so much.
Do you mind if I... ask you why you got divorced?
We're not doing anything wrong, do you.
Are you all right?
No. I'll do them later.
You sure you won't let me help you with those dishes?
I'd appreciate it. I like knowing who I'm stealing from. If you can't create art I think the least you can do is recognize it around you, don't you think? There is... ... so much beauty.
Umm, I don't know. I can look it up.
This "... Of what I call God and fools can Nature." Who wrote that?
You've got it all right here, you know. It's just as beautiful as any other place I've seen. God, it knocks me out.
No. I'm all right. It's working.
You want to go back in?
You get used to it.
Smells like dirt.
No, you rub it on you. I have some in the truck. Don't go away.
You drink bug repellent?
Have no fear. This Shoshone Medicine Woman taught me how to make bug repellent tea out of tree root.
Well, it's kind of buggy out there.
They have safaris for tourists now. Maybe you can convince your husband.
My God. How I'd love to see that.
This is your home. It's not nowhere. And it's not dull.
No. It's all right. I just meant, it might be a little dull for you, telling all this to some housewife in the middle of nowhere.
I'm sorry. That was...
You're asking a man if he's too tired to talk about himself? You don't get out much, do you?
I don't know. I've never thought about it... what was the most exciting place you've ever been to? Unless you're tired of talking about it.
Do you miss it?
My children. And Richard didn't like my working.
Why did you stop?
I'd like to think so. I know one of them went on to Medical school.
And did you?
Well, let's just call it a compliment and move on. Did you love teaching?
I didn't mean that the way it sounded.
I don't think you're normal.
No. I wouldn't say that. National Geographic isn't exactly the hub of artistic inspiration. They like their wild life in focus and without any personal comment. I don't mind really. I'm not artist. I'd faced that a long time ago. It's the course of being well-adjusted. I'm too normal.
You sound like an artist.
I don't know if obsessions have reasons. I think that's why they're obsessions.
Why, do you think?
I'm kind of obsessed by it, actually.
"Making pictures." I like that. You really love what you do, don't you?
Nah. I've tried. My writing's too technical, I think. Problem of being a journalist too long is you stop giving yourself permission to invent. I better just stick to making pictures.
You ought to write these stories down.
We got engaged.
Then what happened?
It's still a very sensitive memory for me.
Oh my God... You're blushing.
She starts sniffing me.
Sure. Men cook. We don't all eat bananas with our feet, ya know.
That's very nice of you. I don't get many dinner invitations on the job. It would be a welcome change. Thanks.
Would you like to stay for dinner? There aren't many choices in town and ... anyway, you'd have to eat alone. So would I.
You have no reason to feel ashamed. You haven't said anything you don't have a right to. And if anybody tells you different -- you just send them to me.
But I... We don't even know each other.
Why? You uncorked a bottle. From what I can tell, I got here just in time. Any later and you'd have made the front page, running down Main Street naked, smoking Camels out of your butt.
I feel so embarrassed.
I better go. You sure you're all right? It's been a pleasure. Sincerely.
I think so.
Is the dizziness gone?
Yes. Very clean.
No. I mean yes, he's clean but he's also other things. He's a very hard worker. Very honest. Very caring. Gentle. Good father.
He's very... clean.
What's he like?
Richard was in the army. I met him while I was living in Naples. I didn't know where Iowa was. I only cared that it was America. And of course, being with Richard.
Italy to Iowa? I'd call that a change.
I doubt that.
I guess. Except I'm one of the people it frightens.
Everything does. One of the laws of nature. People are always so afraid of change. But if you look at it like it's something you can count on happening, it's actually a comfort. Not many things you can count on for sure.
Must be nice having kids.
Oh. Michael's 17 and Carolyn's 16.
No, your kids.
About a year and a half.
Oh. How old?
My husband took the kids to the Illinos State Fair. My daughter's entering a prize steer.
As long as it takes, I might stay a week. No more I don't think. Where's your family?
And how long are you here for?
A little place with cabins. The something-Motor Inn. I haven't checked in yet.
Where are you staying while you're here?
I thought it was funny.
I'm so sorry about that. It was rude. I think I just got nervous for some reason.
Sure you want to keep those in the house?
Not at all.
Mind if I smoke?
Well, thank you for all your help, Mrs. Johnson.
Want another cigarette?
Oh, that's nice.
I found this Chicago station before. Wait a minute... Here it is.
Looking for something in particular? There's not much of a selection.
No, I'm not. I don't know why I said that. I've been in a very... strange mood all day. I've never done anything like that before. It's... I'm just... Well, you know, the whole world is just going nuts.
Are you by nature a sadistic person?
No, not at all -- except those are poisonous.
Men sill give women flowers, don't they? I mean, as a sign of appreciation? I'm not that out of date, am I?
Oh! You caught me.
Oh there you are.
Would you do me a favor and go to the truck? Inside that leather bag with the pockets is a package of lens cleaners. Would you grab me one?
This time of year.
I don't mind waiting.
This won't take long. I'm shooting tomorrow morning. I just need to do some prep work.
Long. You just got off the train and stayed without knowing anyone there?
So, how long you've been living here?
Yeah. Excuse me a sec.
You just... got off the train because it looked pretty?
Oh, yeah. Actually, I had an assignment in Greece and I had to go through Bari to get the boat at Brindisi. But it looked so pretty I got off and stayed for a few days. Breathtaking country.
Oh yeah, Bari. I've been there.
Small town on the Eastern side no one's ever heard of called Bari.
Well, from Italy to Iowa -- that's a story! Whereabouts in Italy?
No, I don't mind. I'm not from here. I was born in Italy.
You don't look like a native, if you don't mind my saying so.
Uh... uh... Umm... long time.
How long you been married?
After the divorce.
Oh. When did you move back?
Uh-huh. Lived there till I was twenty or so and then moved to Chicago when I got married.
Are you from Washington originally?
That must be it. It's a great smell.
Maybe it's because I live here.
I can't describe it. I think it's from the loam in the soil. This very rich, earthy kind of... alive... No. No, that's not right. Can you smell it?
There's a wonderful smell about Iowa -- very particular to this part of the country. Do you know what I mean?
No. I was just going to have some iced tea then split the atom, but that can wait. I just have to get my shoes.
If I'm not taking you away from anything.
Oh, terrific. Which way?
Well, you're pretty close. It's only about two miles from here.
Are you supposed to be in Iowa?
I'm very sad but Richard said that since it's Cary Grant, he completely understands. I'm also taking Mrs. Delaney away from this town. She'll be living with Cary and I in Beverly Hills.
What about your husband?
I said to him Cary you're being ridiculous. You're more than half her age. He said no one had ever been that honest with him and he falls in love with me.
What about his engagement to Dyan Cannon?
Yes. And I've accepted.
Mrs. Johnson! Mrs. Johnson! Is it true Cary Grant has proposed to you?
I just want to say... I know you had your own dreams. I'm sorry I couldn't give them to you. I love you so much.
Hmm. How about that brown sugar meat loaf you make?
Want anything special for dinner?
It's only four days.
I'm going to miss you.
"I had forgotten this. I had somehow remembered it being more his fault, his decision. Then I remembered we made love in that field before we left for home. And I remembered it was my idea. I remembered tearing his shirt and biting his body, hoping he would kidnap me. I had forgotten that too. And I wondered, as I sat there... how many other things I'd forgotten."
I'm not sick, Richard. I'm just not tired, now go back to sleep before you're up for the whole night too!
Again? Maybe you should see a doctor.
I can't sleep.
Now?! It's after eleven.
I'm not tired. I thought I might finish Carolyn's skirt.
Where you going?
Later. Go back to sleep.
What time is it?
Well you should all go to bed early. I'll do the cleaning up.
I don't know. Can we turn it off? I have such a headache.
Kinda pretty. Is this uh... jazz kinda singing?
It's a Chicago station. I found it the other day.
Yes. I'm fine. It's just this heat I think.
You feeling better Franny?
Isn't that nice? You should bring her home to meet us!
Well, she's... she's real pretty and ... and she's got a cute shape... she's a good sport, ya know, for laughs and ... she loves fried chicken wings and beer.
Well, what's nice about her? Tell us!
Uh... Yeah. Yeah. She's real nice.
What's she like?
What's her name?
Are you seeing Betty tonight?
Yes, they are.
They're not going to find her!
About an hour ago.
I don't remember!
Think for a second. Is there someplace she said she wanted to go?
I was paying the check. She ran outside. I told her to wait for me right here! Oh God, where is she? Rebecca!
Oh my God...!
Who the hell is Lucy Delaney?
Well, it was notarized, and witnessed by a Mrs. Lucy Delaney. Maybe you can ask her.
Well, she was very specific. She wanted her ashes to be thrown over Roseman Bridge.
I don't care what it says! Maybe Mama was delirious, you know. She didn't know what she was saying. If she wanted to be cremated, why the hell did she let dad buy two plots, huh?
It clearly states in the will --
Well, that's crazy. I don't know anybody who gets cremated.
Apparently just before her death.
When did she decide this?
Your mother left explicit instructions that she wished to be cremated.
Well, close the fucking door by all means. But don't expect me to go down there and do it.
Your father was his best friend. He loved Jeremiah. So he must hate him the most of all now. He'll take his time. But even if it is too late. If your father is dead. It's not over. The door has to be closed.
It's the only way. It's possible your father may not be dead yet.
We can't go back there. Are you crazy? You saw --
I know damn well she's there.
Why don't you hang on and I'll see if she's here.
Outta my way, boy. Cinnabar? I'm coming!
Some holes can't be filled. Some hungers can't be satisfied.
You people really don't like dogs.
Don't feed that dog.
Take my advice. Get the hell out of there. It's a bad place. Always has been.
How the hell should I know?
Died there? How?
Yeah. He lived there. And died there, too.
Is it true?
Alright. Yes sir. Anything you say.
Take my advice. And shoot that dog. Or let me.
Then what do you care?
He yours, sir?
Hey, watcha doing with that dog?
Go for it.
Can you take a little extended solo right about now, funk soul brotha?
Saw Bones ol' Bones on top of the hill. Rolling fat jays outta hundred dollar bills.
...Bones ol' Bones so mean and bad, whupped his mamma, shot his dad.
Damn. It's so...fresh.
You think that's really him?
"This is the story of Jimmy Bones/Black as night and hard as stones/Gold plated deuce, like the King of Siam/Got his switchblade loose, and a diamond on his hand..." There's the switchblade and there's the diamond. Don't know where the deuce is parked.
What the hell you talking about?
Boys and girls, Moms and Dads. Children of all ages, I'd like you to meet... Jimmy Bones.
Maurice, man, shut the fuck up.
Oh yeah, I guess this would be that space that was so perfect for a recording studio.
Some flies? I think this qualifies as way more than "some."
Just some flies.
Ugh. Muchos moscos, man. This is too much.
Nothing. Contact paranoia. Must be buggin' from hanging with you.
Take who where? What you smokin'?
You didn't hear that? "Take him... " Something. "Bury him" or...
Keep smokin', fool.
The man said just to use my imagination. Let's see...yeah, I get it. Potential. I can see it now. The first major urban theme park. Village Ghetto land. Kinda like Legoland, but made entirely from broken glass, hypodermic needles and crack vials. Totally E-ticket.
Are you nuts?
Look around, this place is a dump! Naw, it'd have to work to be a dump.
What's your problem with Crippled Dick?
Yeah, in the land of the blind the one eye'd are king.
Bones! How baddass is zat? This is the place for us. Patrick, you get platinum props, man. Platinum.
So what the hell's the good news?
We practically paying him for the privilege of playing his club.
Or just Hell-adjacent...
Is this Hell?
Anywhere but here.
Climb out to where?
We can climb out.
Fine. But I'm bringing a couple of friends.
You ain't going down there. Not alone. I'll go.
Well, go find his lazy ass. I scratch any more tonight I'm gonna have carpal tunnel syndrome.
Probably stoned out of his gourd in some corner.
Where's the gangsta of love?
Damned if I know.
You sure got a way with women, bro. What happened up there?
Whatever, let's just get the hellout of here.
Yeah, we can. Least till after this weekend. He ain't going nowhere. We'll deal with it then.
Maurice left. Tia's taking a bath.
Where's the others?
Yeah, there is a strange vibe here.
No. Well, yeah. Maybe just a little.
Let's get going. Go home, pick up what we need, then crash here.
Tia ain't a chick. She's family. And don't forget it.
Pat's right. It'll be fun.
I believe in you guys. You are the real shit. And you know it. Now I'm putting everything I got into this cuz I think we can make it happen, but you gotta put a little in too. Now all I"m asking is that everybody do their part. We'll move some shit in, and take shifts, or all crash together here --
You soundin' like the old man now.
That's the only way we'll get the place fixed up in time.
You want us to move in here?
Naw. I think it's... I dunno. Something about it just buzzes me.
Damn. That is the ugliest building I have ever seen.
I'm telling you, this neighborhood is coming back.
Looks like a damn graveyard round here.
Yeah, and it took some doing to get out of there. Just be glad I did and you can start life from here instead of down there.
But that's your old hood, Pops.
Clean your mouth, or I will. Those boys had no business messing down there. Go places you're not meant to be -- that's what you get.
That's some terrible shit.
You wouldn't know a mule if it bit you in the ass. And personally, I don't need a mule. I got a Lexus. And nobody gave it to me --
Dad, the man has been lying to us for a hundred years. I mean, where is my forty acres and a mule?
Don't poison your mind with that ghetto paranoia. That's all just ways of people justifying their own failure.
You tell my old friend Mackie, I'll be seeing him. Soon. Real soon.
Big Bad Eddie Mack? Got shit for brains and that's a fack. Hey-heh...
Hey, Eddie Mack don't like no wackos on his street. Go be Rain Man on some other bitch's block.
Unh-unh, little brother. I got a natural high. A supernatural high.
Looking to score?
Go on. It won't kill you.
I said, no thanks.
Just try it.
I ain't interested. And if you gonna sell it, don't sell it round here.
Ain't no big thang. It's just a po' man's free base. Here, check it out.
Those 'fools' are my people.
Yeah, but I ain't talking horse. I'm talking about a five-dollar kick in the head that's a quick ticket to heaven. And the fools keep coming back for more.
But a two dollar bet is cheaper than a twenty-dollar bag.
It ain't the money - it's the high. The big fat floating 'what if?' And it's way more profitable. Nobody ever wins. So you never have to pay out.
What else? Money.
But things change. You gotta think ahead.
I do alright. Everybody's happy.
You got a nice crib here.
What it will be.
Yeah, we used to do the after-school b ball at Kenwood. What it is?
Where we'll always be...
Where are we, baby?
I want you to do something for me, baby.
I've got what I want. Turn around baby, look at me. Look at your man.
Jimmy, you've got --
No. Not...not you. You I forgive.
No? That mean there's something more left of you than just that hungry spirit? What are you going to do now? Kill us? Kill us all?
I don't know whether to chill you and serve with cottage cheese, or rip you open and eat you right here.
Gotta be an in-ey and gotta be smooth. If it's ragged, it was picked too soon. Won't ever be ripe. Second, it's got to have just a little give, here. At the edges. And last, but not very far from least... You gotta get your nose in it and give it a gooooood, looooong sniff.
Don't you worry about a thing. This hand's gonna be stroking the back of your neck tonight.
No baby. I'm serious. Cancel that meeting. I got more fruit that needs checking. Come home with me now.
Must be my clothes line. No? How bout my phone line?
Left hand's the past. Your right's the present. And the future. But it's not written in stone. It's written in flesh and blood. And flesh and blood will change. See? There's something here, a new line, right across your life line.
Sounds like mama needs a brand new bag.
My mama's bag and my granma's bag, and a long line of mamas before her.
All that shinin' and "reader and adviser" mess. That was your mama's bag. I don't know about the readin' but you both can sure 'nuff advise.
Let me see your hand.
Don't need luck tonight. I'm just letting 'em have their say before I say no.
Maybe I oughtta get there a little early. For good luck.
Then fuck it!!!
You know I can't.
Aw that's easy. I want my life back. Can you swing that, my brother?
What will it take? What do you want? Just tell me, Jimmy!
No brother. I wouldn'ta. I never done a man - any man. Let alone a brother like that. Course, as you can see, no good deed goes unfucked. Now the question is, if the good get fucked, what we got saved up for the bad? You about to find out.
Wait, Jimmy. Think about it. You woulda done the same thing if you was me.
And the hell everybody else, right?
I didn't want a piece of yours, I wanted my own.
I don't understand it. You were my Man. Since we was grasshoppas. I always looked after you. You had a piece of everything I had.
Time like this, is that what you really want to know? How I got the fuck in here?
How did you get in here?
What it will be.
You always told me, it's a dog eat dog world.
Since we was just grasshoppers...
Sorry, my brother.
I don't need to hear the deal. I don't need any partners. I don't need new product. And I sure as hell don't need this motherfucker's 'mattie in my face.
Everybody just be cool. Jimmy, man, I think you oughtta hear the deal.
Hey Jimmy, you know Eddie Mack, don't you?
That's your dream, Homes. Not mine. I don't want to leave this street. Ever. The status quo is totally cool with me.
One simple word, three little letters. Yes. That's all it's gonna take and we could move out of this dump, get the real deal. Big houses, legit business...
Nothing but net? Could be a swish. Or a muthafucking air ball.
Trust me, Jimmy, there's big money behind this. Not just big. BIG. Like big business big. Big corporation big. Big government big. Our little acre alone'll net hundreds a thousands. Nothing but net.
They get about twelve and a half minutes. Tops.
It's all arranged for tonight. Eddie Mack's gonna be there. And Offisa Korruptsky, too.
Go easy on Jay Bird. I can remember when we was his age...
'Sup Jimmy B. Shotgun. Get back on the curb! Now!
My God. My dress. We have to find it. And burn it. And shut the door.
In his grave there was a cloth or a dress or something. Covered with blood.
Told you so. Alright. We tried. Let's go home.
Girl, they build gates like that to keep people like us out.
No we won't, Momma. I'll just have them call and tell Patrick it's us.
We'll have to sneak in.
Fine. Maybe I got nothing to lose. 'Cept you.
I don't. Patrick doesn't. And his brother and sister don't. And they're in the house with him.
Like what? I got a little power, sure. A touch of the shining, a little of the sight. But no more than you do. We're not witches. I can't wiggle my nose or say a magic word and make him go away. Besides, maybe they deserve it. Maybe we all do.
Aren't you gonna do something about it?
Eddie Mack, that cop. And Jeremiah. And even when he's done, who knows. He won't be satisfied. Just like that demon dog. Feed it, and it just grows hungrier. Feed his hunger for revenge - he just wants more. Who knows where it'll stop. That kind of hunger ain't never satisfied.
He'll kill them. He'll kill every last one of them.
But how do you know? Maybe he just wanted to see us? And now he's gone again. And you've all killed my father for the second time.
Sure, if it was really him. But it isn't that simple. Jimmy's body died a long time ago. And his soul is long gone, and all that's left is that ravening, hungry spirit in the blood that soaked into the house itself, I suppose.
But if it's him. If he's really come back, won't he know us? Love us?
You got his hands. Beautiful hands. I didn't even know. That night. When they - we - killed him, that you were already alive inside me. Life's like that. Grows right out of death.
Your father. He was your father.
Who? Who is he? What is he?
If he was trying to kill you, you'd be dead.
Who was he, Momma? He tried to kill us.
It's alright, baby.
You said bad things hurt places. So maybe good things heal them. Good things are happening here. Maybe for the first time ever. And maybe that's all it takes.
Please. It's for your own good.
All the more reason I should be here.
You said the vision, the images. They're just that. Just pictures. They can't hurt you. That's what you always said.
...I've seen things. In there. Last night. You did too. Don't tell me you didn't. You were crying like a baby.
Just a bad place. And the doorway to worse.
And what's that?
Maybe once upon a time. But that was long ago. Back before... before it became what it is.
Have you ever been inside?
Nothing but a wide world o' pain locked in there.
They seemed alright. Bring a little life to that old building.
I don't want you meeting around that house. You stay away from those kids. And away from that dog.
I'm sorry, Momma. Maybe next time.
You mean as opposed to your life?
You got a vision, girl. Just like I got. Just like my momma had. And the good Lord didn't give you that vision just for painting pretty pictures. That's just wasted time.
I have to finish this for class.
Aren't you going to join us?
We gotta jump!
I can't find you.
Here, find my hand. The stairs are right near here. I saw them. Let's just walk up there.
Okay, okay. Listen:
My old man calls the shots. He built that gate and these damn walls.
Why couldn't you just tell him to let us in?
Don't worry about it. I'll stay with the boys.
No, I want to stay with you guys. But I can't. I mean I'm not ready.
It's alright. If you want to go home...
I can't. Not yet.
I'm sure I can make your mother like me. But then do I gotta worry 'bout your father?
He probably thinks he's saving you from something. I'm sure that's what my mother thinks.
Believe me, my old man'd rupture his spleen if he knew we was down here. All he talks about is the medal he deserves for building us a life as far from this 'hood as possible.
She doesn't want me here. With you. In this house.
What? Oh yeah. Coming.
If I did, I wouldn't come within fifty yards of your door.
And you believe her?
Or the living fall in. Who knows.
The dead get out?
Yeah. But when something bad happens, something really bad -- the wall breaks. The fabric tears.
Maybe. But there's an invisible wall, a fabric that kinda keeps things separate.
Like right now, there's actually like hordes of dead people shambling around us? Fingers rotting off?
My momma says every house is two houses. Every street, two streets. There's a whole city, a whole world, kinda beside, on top, just below this one. The city of the dead.
Way I figure, everything our parents tell us is part true and part total B.S. And our whole job is figuring out for ourselves which is which.
Nothing. You'd think she was crazy. And she is a lot of things, not all of them nice, but crazy Momma's not.
What else does she say?
No. It goes way back. Or so my Momma says.
That place is already bad luck.
Careful. That's bad luck.
Anytime. Be seeing you.
Guess it's not Rossmore Park. Thanks for the help.
I manage them.
How do you know?
Naw. But they will be. They're the best.
Are they on the radio?
You moved into this block?
no really, let us help. We're new in the neighborhood, gonna be neighbors.
Fuck it. Alright.
Don't worry. It's just round the corner. Halfway down that block, you can't miss it. Top step of the front stairs, there's a loose stone. Go on, I ain't shitting you.
I can't carry it in my pocket, man. And I can't go get it for you cause you might be a cop. You gonna have to pick it up yourself.
Where is it?
Let me see it.
Let me see it.
Yeah, but you got to come the rest of the way on foot. Leave your car and walk over here.
You got the shit?
You got the cash?
Back here. At the end of the block.
We're here. Where the hell are you?
Help me. I'm so sorry. But please, help me...
Dead? I don't think your past is dead. It's alive. And it bites.
That's the past. It's dead.
I saw your face. You knew that place. You knew those people.
You were just a kid.
Bullshit, Dad. Don't front me. For once. Just tell me the truth. I came from there, too.
It's...it's a bad neighborhood. As you can see now.
Why? Why did you give a shit about the building? Why did you care that we were there of all places?
I wouldn't have risked killing you to get you out. I was trying to protect you.
You could have had it done. You didn't want us there.
Sure, son. I went down there and torched the place myself.
Did you do it?
Bullshit! Bullshit!! You're selling it back! That's an order!
You'll take care of it? Not this time. No way. I bought it fair and square. And we open tonight.
No one'll ever come here. Shut it down. Don't worry, the bank'll buy it back. I'll take care of it.
I thought you'd be psyched. Just trying to do what you did. Take nothing and make something out of it.
Listen to me, boy. I didn't work all my life to get out of this neighborhood for you to move right back in!
Like you always said, Pop, look for the undervalued.
What are we doing down here?
A little business move I made. On my own. I think you're gonna approve.
Where are we going? You know I hate surprises.
Can't be done. That place already died and gone to hell.
But maybe we're the ones who should be down there. Doing something. Making it better.
You cut him, or I shoot you. Make your choice.
No way man...
That's it. Get out. Now!
Nice rack. How old is --
You better hope not. Cause it's like they say, four can keep a secret, if three are dead.
Look, even if anyone found anything there, it's twenty years ago. They could never connect it to us.
That's a Bozo no-no. Jay-bird.
You're right. One of my associates sold the building last month.
Well, somebody bought it. That's what I heard.
I didn't sell it.
Don't shit a shitter. Our building. What did you call it? His 'tomb'? We had an agreement. You were supposed to sit on it. Not sell it --
Maybe so. Maybe so. But that ain't why I came to see you. You sold the building.
Or you didn't know what to do with it.
No reason to get nasty. Yeah, I've stayed in the organization. But then again I never got the percentage you did.
And you? Still a pig. Just a much fatter one.
I been watching you. You done good. Invested wisely. Respectable businessman now. Just like you always wanted.
Keep your hands to yourself, willya?
You certainly traded up. ...the trophy wife. Nice lookin'.
Don't call me that.
Just a visit with my old pal, Jay-bird.
What the hell do you want?
What it is? What it will be, muthafucka.
Last thing you need's for me to start doing my fucking job.
You was just doing your job.
Fair enough for the shit. But I think a little bonus is due for knocking out the competition.
No time for eightball. I got your tip.
I ain't killed nobody. Shall I rack 'em? Play a game, Lupe?
Not your style. Is it Eddie? Killing off your customers?
Fuckin' comedian. See you tomorrow.
Oh, no. Please don't make me go by myself. I'm scaaaaaaaaaared.
I'm on my way home. Can you handle it yourself?
12-year olds. They scare easy. Anyway, he's gonna tip their stash. Come with me.
Shit, that was fast.
I know it. The old slaughterhouse. Hey, Sal. That little weasel we popped today? He's got something for us. I knew he would once he thought about it.
No more thoughts from your asses. Or I will burn your asses and snort the ashes. Hear me?
We just thought...
How many times I told you, no psycho shit. There gonna be psycho shit, I'm the one that does it.
That you stole off those white boys was down here last night? Are you crazy? Everybody from hell to breakfast heard that screamin' on Blackstone last night!
We got a gift for you, Eddie. Fresh new BMW.
Goddamnit! How many times I told you --
Maybe I oughta open a couple holes in that head and let all them voices out. You'll feel better, I promise.
It was just like in my head.
Then how'd you hear it, fool?
No, Eddie. It's just that, I dunno. He was tall, and thin, and like a shadow, his face was just a blur. All I remember is the voice. It was smooth and low and it didn't seem to be comin' out of his mouth.
You boys been hitting the pipe?
Get that car the hell away from here, now! I spend a lot of money to keep the cops cool. But this is the kinda shit that pisses everybody off.
That's all we did, steal their ride.
You gon tell me you didn't ginsu those punks and steal their ride?
We didn't do nothing, Eddie.
Maybe there's a pipe underneath the floor. It leaked and stained.
"Like a heartbeat/Like a love beat." Listen to the Di Franco twins there. Just the plumbing or something, fool.
Post-toasted's more like it.
I am the future. I am all colors. All races. All creeds. I am the melting pot. I am the tossed salad. I am post racial.
Maurice, even if it was true, what are you worried about? Last time I checked, you weren't black. I'm not sure what the hell you are. But I know you aren't a black man.
Just what army do you think the Colonel was in? Everybody knows the whole chicken distribution network is owned by the Klan. "Special recipe". I'm telling you. There's something in the batter. Say it makes a black man sterile.
Why not? He eats everything else.
The Gangster of Love don't eat no fried chicken.
I thought you were bringing the Colonel?
Look, you guys want to play college radio, high school reunions, and some fool's club once a week for the rest of your lives, that's cool. But I think we can do better.
Yeah right, and which ever of us is still alive at the end of the week inherits all Vincent Price's cash.
Potential toxic dump site.
Why don't y'all check out the rest? I'm going downstairs and see if I can get the furnace fired up. Warm this place up, you'll see. It has serious potential.
"This is Patrick..." "...And this is Patrick on crack." Imagination, my butt. Even the space cowboy can't...
You gotta use your imagination.
I was born near here. My dad's from here. He never mentioned it.
He was a local legend back in the '70's. There was a song, Stagolee kinda deal: "This is the ballad of Jimmy Bones/Black as night and hard as stone..."
Not that I remember.
Yeah, you heard of him?
Whattaya think? Can you picture it? Over there the bar, and in here -- the dance floor.
And damp, too. Let's not forget damp.
I was planning on waiting until I got the place cleaned out, but -- like the man says, carpe diem.
Sqweeep. We innerup this programme to bring you this special news bulletin -- "Aliens from Reticula 3 have hijacked Patrick Peet and injected moly headcheese into his skull filling his entire brain cavity with cosmic slop..."
I just accelerated my top secret long term plan for our world domination.
Gonna be le hot shit. Pardon my Francais. Dance club. The Resurrection Brothers play there. Heard of them?
Not really to live, just to play.
Need any help with those bags, Ma'am?
I'm not joking boy. Don't feed it. It'll only make it hungrier.
And some people need their medication tweaked.
Then your father's a dead man and Jimmy Bones is gonna be around a long time.
It's not safe down there. The fire started down there. The whole thing could collapse.
The blood is still there. We just gotta figure out where.
But the place burned to the ground.
... see there ain't just two parts to a person. There's three. Body-Soul and Spirit. The spirit lives in the blood. It's the wanting that holds body and soul together, and sometimes, the wanting lives on. Jimmy's blood must still be in the house.
Save him? What are you talking about?
You sure we oughta save him? Why not just let see how safe his gates and walls keep him when his past comes calling?
You're pretty black to be growing up in Rossmore Park.
I was born near here. But after my mother died, my dad moved. I grew up out in Rossmore Park.
You look mighty familiar to me. You sure you're not from around here?
What we have to do is call the police.
Shit! Damn dog. We gonna have to do something about you.
Somehow I don't think he stabbed himself in the chest, then buried himself too.
Evidence of what?
Boy, put that thing down. You can't take that. Might be evidence.
We're all tired. Everybody makes mistakes. Tomorrow in the daylight, everything's gonna look different.
There wasn't any draft. That window was closed.
Illibent? Who's club is that?
How could that be? The box was packed!
Well, the bad news is we only made 25 bucks each.
Where is it?
You're a dead man! A fucking dead man!
The next one blows off your dick.
Caesar, I don't know what you're thinking here, but if you don't put down that gun --
Where is it?
I think you're fucking crazy!
You don't think I'll do it, do you?
What are you talking about?
The same way you did before.
How the fuck can I open it?
You don't need a key.
All right! Where's the key?
Open the case!
That's right, I know. I fucking know.
That you overreacted. That you lost it. Not me. It was your mistake.
Just admit it, Caesar.
Where is this going, Johnnie?
The money I bet it was nothing to get it clean, after you made such a fucking big deal ...
What's that, Johnnie?
Come on, Pop, all I want to know is one thing. Just one thing after he made such a big deal out of it. I bet it wasn't a big deal. Was it, Caesar?
Two point one seventy-six.
So Caesar, what did it total out at?
I'll have whatever Violet's drinking.
Glenlivet, right, Gino?
No, no, Caesar. Not now.
You want to get into this now?
You shouldn't have hit me.
Here, put this in his mouth.
You hear that, bitch? Be quiet!
Whoa, whoa. Come on, he's making too much noise.
Give it to me.
I can't. I can't.
Gimme the gun.
We're family, Caesar.
No, Caesar, gimme the gun.
Sit down, Gino!
You aim a gun at me?! Do you know who I am?! I am Gino Marzzone. You understand?
Gino, your son stole this money to set me up and I can prove it. Violet!
Ask Johnnie! Ask your rat-fuck son!
Caesar? What is this?
Yeah, I know.
We know how this was done, eh?
Caesar, you don't know shit.
What are you going to do, V? Shoot me? Kill me in cold blood? I don't think so. I'll tell you why. If you had it in you to pull that trigger, you would have done it a long time ago. If I was you, I would have killed me the minute I brought the money home. But you didn't and I know why, because you don't want to kill me. Do you, V? Do you? No, I know you don't.
I knew I couldn't trust you.
You know he would have done you, too.
I should have let him kill you.
Now that's teamwork.
Sure, Gino, sure.
Tell them I'm at St. Mary's off the Kennedy, in the waiting room, but stay on the phone until I come out.
Yes, I understand.
I want what's mine, half the money. We get rid of Mickey, no one else dies. No one. Say yes, I understand.
We make a deal or I come out and hand this phone to Mickey.
Now you listen to me, asshole, I know your gun is behind the bar ...
They're all fine. Just bruises and shit.
But everybody is all right.
They were in a car accident.
We were in a car accident --
Holy shit, I don't believe it! We've been going crazy over here, Gino!
You're blowing your only chance. Act like I'm Gino.
Bullshit, you killed him. Not me. You did it because you couldn't stand the thought of Johnnie fucking you.
I had to. You made me.
You murdered Gino!
You betrayed me!
Saved me? You don't even know me. You used me, Caesar, just like I used you. All part of the business.
Ha! What a load of crap. Look at yourself, Caesar. You're a thug. |You launder money for the mob. You rent women like you rented this apartment.
I saved you.
Everything you couldn't.
What did she do to you?
Let us go and we'll make a deal.
Shut up, Violet.
You need the money just like we do.
Don't try to tell me what to do.
Caesar, stop acting like an asshole and think --
Not until he has the money!
He can't kill you --
Shut up, Violet!
Don't tell him --
Where is the money?
I can use Johnnie's car, dump it in Lake Michigan ... I need plastic bags ... tape and rope ...
Who are you going to call?
We're going to need some time.
What are you doing?
I don't know. it could be anywhere. We don't even know if he was alone. Please, Caesar, we don't have much time. Let's get out of here.
It's not here, Caesar.
Caesar, someone could see us out here.
They're just cops. Stall them as long as you can.
Caesar, what are we going to do?
I don't know. We may never know, but I'm going to guess it was a job, maybe the Karpoli family.
What happened to them?
No I didn't. Not if his body disappears and not if the money is still here. Then they never showed up.
Caesar, you just killed Gino Marzzone.
Once we have the money, then none of this ever happened.
What do you think we're going to do? We have to find the money.
Caesar, what are you going to do?
... maybe three hours.
For Christ's sake, Johnnie, do what he says.
Tell them! Tell them!
Shut up, Violet! This is between me and Johnnie.
All right, Johnnie, you want to play it this way, I can play it this way. You want to know who made a mistake, why don't you open the case.
I've seen the way he looks at you. He's always wanted you. Maybe two million dollars finally bought you.
You don't, you can't believe that ...
It would have been so easy to let him in as you went out.
Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. Maybe you dropped the Scotch by accident. Maybe you didn't.
Caesar, this is crazy.
If you're not with me, Violet, then I have to assume you're against me.
Violet, I won't let you leave.
Bullshit! You don't need me! You've never needed me! I can't help you! Understand?! I have to get out.
I need you ...
The hell I can't!
You can't leave.
This is insane!
See, right now he doesn't know that I know, that's why he put the paper in the case. He wants me to hand the case to Gino. Then there is no doubt it was me. Gino will put a bullet in me himself. But it ain't going to happen. I won't let it! Johnnie ain't going to fuck me! Not like this! No way!
He didn't see you, did he?
He didn't have that much time. He had to pick up Gino. I bet you he's got it with him. I bet it's in the car.
But it could be anywhere.
No. Johnnie's got it. All I got to do is get it back.
The money? The money's gone.
I got it! I know what I got to do! I got to get the money.
All right, Caesar.
Goddammit, Violet! Would you just leave me the fuck alone! Please! Leave! Now!
I mean it, Caesar, forget Johnnie, forget the money, let's just go now, before it's too late --
Caesar, maybe we should run --
Got to think this through ...
Caesar, what are we going to do?
So what?! So fucking what? Use your head, Violet. The money is gone. Gino is coming here to get it. You think he's going to believe me if I tell him his piss-hole son stole it! Is that what you think? I don't. You know what I think? I think I'm a dead man. I'm one in the brain. That's what I think!
But you know he did it.
I hate that little fuck! I hate him! I hate him! I should've done him!
Jesus Christ, Violet! Open your fucking eyes! Johnnie hates me like I hate him!
Why? Why would Johnnie do this?
Caesar, I know Johnnie. It was him. I screamed when I saw him. I couldn't believe I missed them. I knew you were going to be upset so I thought I'd apologize and give Gino the Scotch. I honked a couple of times but he didn't stop.
It was him. I'm positive.
It couldn't have been.
I was getting out of the car when I saw him in the Mercedes.
Because I just saw Johnnie downstairs.
That doesn't make any sense.
No! They're still on their way.
You mean they weren't up here?
What are you, drunk?
They just left, didn't they?
What are you talking about?
They were early.
Don't be silly, Caesar. It'll take five minutes.
There's no time.
Don't worry, I'll get some more.
I'm sorry. It was an accident.
Fuck! Fuck! How did you ... Awwww goddammit!
Ummm ... in the linen closet.
Where the hell's the laundry detergent?
I told them to run it through the cycles. But I guess Gino has plans for it because he's coming here tomorrow night to pick this shit up.
What are you going to do with it?
Just look at this mess I got to deal with.
It was unbelievable! Un-fucking- believable!
Caesar, what happened?
Why? 'Cause you know him?
Caesar, I'm serious. This is too much. I have to get out of here.
What? Oh, come on, I didn't use one of the good towels.
Caesar, I'm leaving.
You're right. You don't have to tell me, if you don't want to. I just hope you understand you're among good people here.
That's none of your goddamn business, Caesar.
Not bad. What for?
What? It ain't no big fuckin' deal. I know who Don hires. Did you know he did time himself?
So, you just got out?
No shit. Bianchinni hired you? You know he's a good friend of mine. |Family, really.
She's doing the work herself.
I'm sorry, Christ, I thought ... it's fucking dark in here.
Caesar, this is Corky. Corky, Caesar.
Oh, shit ...
What the fuck is going on?
I didn't expect --
All part of the business.
All part of the business.
We make our own choices, we pay our own prices.
Try to keep the extra batteries for your aid around.
Go right ahead, sir.
I'm going to make myself a drink, if that's okay?
Not on duty, sorry.
It's all right, sir.
Fuck, this happened before. It's this shitty ear. Born with it. The batteries wore out in my aid. I'm sorry.
Pretty good, sir.
How's it going tonight, fellas?
I could be lying.
You can't kill me yet.
When I reach ten, then I'll start with you.
I'm going to ask you where the money is. Every time you don't give me an answer, I'm going to cut off one finger.
Either pull the trigger or get that thing out of my face.
Where is it?
Now, where the fuck is my money?
My brushes, I have to clean my brushes. Thanks, though.
What? How about a drink?
I should be going.
Good. I hate to worry. I got ulcers.
How many'd you do?
No. Rajeev's in India.
You're helping Rajeev?
Where's the fucking money?
You planned this whole thing, didn't you?
Leave your phone on the hook.
Call me as soon as you get him.
Oh yeah. Violet!
You got the key?
Ssh! I can't hear Gino!
Un-fucking-believable. I called those highway patrol dumb fucks.
Where in the hell is he?
It's Gino! It's Gino!
Fuck it, I don't need the key.
The key, yeah, the key's in my pants in the bathroom.
Hey, Caesar, where's the key?
Yeah, that's it.
Is that the money?
Sure, Cease. They make us do stupid things, don't they.
Actually, yeah, she was nervous about Gino coming, wanted everything to look right. You know women, Mick.
Why'd you move all the furniture around?
Cease, can I ask you something?
Hey, if Violet was helping me relax, I'd probably do the same thing.
Oh Christ, the phone ... That was a fucking stupid thing to do, wasn't it?
I started thinking maybe it's about the money so I call you, but all I get is the busy signal. I figure the phone is off the hook, that's why I come rushing over here.
We went over to Johnnie's place just to check it out and it was busted up, Bad.
We was worried about you, Cease.
Shit, Mick, come on in, let me get you a drink. Sit down, Lou.
That Violet is one nice lady. Wish someone would help me relax.
Yeah, it was Violet's idea. I was so wound up about Gino, she was trying to help me relax.
I was buzzing, I was knocking, but I guess you couldn't hear me on account of being in the shower.
I thought I heard someone knocking.
No, Cease. There was no answer.
Good. Sit tight. I'll call you.
Yeah, Mick. I've got the money. I'm staring right at it.
Caesar, you still got the money?
Okay, sure, Mick.
Okay. Let me call around. I'll see what I can do. Don't go anywhere, okay?
No. I don't know where they are. I even called over at Johnnie's, but no answer.
What? They ain't there?
Mick, I know it's late, but there is a problem. They haven't shown up yet.
Sure, Mickey. Sure.
Caesar, didn't I tell you to get something?
Mickey, why is Johnnie here? You know how I feel about that fucking psycho.
Are you okay, Violet?
Now why don't you go watch some TV or something?
... thank you.
This is a beautiful place.
You did the right thing.
I'm sorry, it's just you hear stories.
See? We're for real.
Ma'am, you have to open the door.
How do I know you are cops?
No joke, ma'am. Please open the door.
Gunfire? Is this a joke?
We had a report of gunfire, so if you could --
This is the police, ma'am.
... Me neither.
You know what the difference is between us, Violet?
I'm here, aren't I?
How'd it go?
Don't be sorry. Help me.
I'm sorry, Corky ...
You don't quit on me, Violet, and I won't quit on you.
I was so afraid you ...
I'm still here.
Oh, thank God.
We're almost there, Violet. just hang on.
okay, all right.
Listen, if he doesn't run, all you have to do is break down, go to your bedroom and pack some things, start crying, saying you love him but you can't do it. You're sorry but you have to leave and just walk out.
Oh, Christ, I got to get out of here!
That means he probably will kill Johnnie.
What if he doesn't run?
It's all right, Violet. It's working. All we got to do is wait him out and see what he does.
Believes it! Jesus, it's driving him crazy. He wants to kill him. I don't know, Corky, I don't know what he is going to do. I'm getting nervous, really nervous.
That's okay, as long as he believes it was Johnnie.
He totally freaked. I've never seen him like this. He's out of his fucking mind.
I think we're going to find out.
I had a partner and she fucked me.
Every job like this has moments where things don't go so well and everyone starts thinking about their own ass. It's in those moments that everything comes together or falls apart.
If you're this goddamn smart, how did you ever get caught?
Jesus, that's beautiful.
You'll be clean and we'll be rich.
If he runs, everyone will assume he took the money.
He'll have to run.
C! Shit, I'm sorry!
If it's real enough, he'll believe it, because deep down he'll want to.
Because of what you are going to tell him. You have to make it as real as you can. The moment you open the door with the Scotch in your hand, you will be covered, and that moment is the most important moment in the plan.
I still don't see how I'm going to get clean with the money in the apartment. Everyone will think I did it.
The same way I'll know that you went to Scotch. Trust.
When I get the Scotch, how do I know you won't take off?
There is no going back.
If he does ...
I'm just asking, what if?
Trust me, Violet.
You can't know for certain that he won't see you.
What if he sees you?
Shit! Oh shit!
And as you do, the bottle will slip from your hands. -- and shatter against the hardwood floor.
Waiting in the apartment next door.
Where will you be?
Poor boy, has to work so hard.
We want him to come down, to relax, feel in control again.
Gino travels with a big man named Roy. Caesar calls him the driver.
The plane is in at seven, so I'd say about eight.
What time did you say they would be there?
Scotch, Glenlivet. I remember that Caesar made a huge deal about it.
What did Gino drink?
Gino doesn't know English, or at least he pretends he doesn't, so he doesn't talk much. He gets right to the point. Both times they talked for about five minutes, had one drink and then they left.
It's getting better and better. Keep going.
He does it right in front of him.
Has Caesar ever seen him?
Johnnie hits on anything in high heels.
Does Johnnie hit on you?
Not much, really. Caesar was nervous, kept cleaning the apartment. |The first time, he picked out the dress he wanted me to wear.
Gino Marzzone is coming to your apartment. It's a big deal, isn't it? That means Caesar will be ready. He doesn't want to look like an idiot. Gino has been there before?
And Johnnie is his son, that's Johnnie Marzzone?
Gino Marzzone is coming tonight to pick up the money?
That's his brother.
Marzzone? As in Angelo Marzzone, head of the Marzzone family?
Who is Gino?
It started way before I was around. I think basically it's because he thinks Johnnie is a complete idiot. But Johnnie runs Chicago because Gino is his father.
Like each other? They hate each other.
It sounded like he and Caesar don't like each other.
All right, now, tell me about Johnnie.
Does the case lock?
It's in a case, on his desk.
In his office. I saw it this morning.
And where is it now?
To let it dry.
He hung it up.
Then what? Exactly.
You said he washed the money?
I think ...
Do you think you know me like that?
The difference is, I can have sex with someone I just met, someone I hardly know, but to steal I need to know someone like I know myself.
I'm just making a point. You have no idea what you're asking. How much trust two people need to do something like this.
Is that what you think?
All you would need to keep yourself clean would be someone unconnected, someone like me.
I didn't say that, but since you did, let's say that you are. It would have been easy to set Shelly up. You could have got him killed knowing that Caesar would bring the money to the apartment.
You think I'm lying?
All right, let's say for the moment that I believe everything you are saying.
I am, but ...
That's why I need your help. You said you were good.
These people are serious, Violet. If you want to know how serious, ask Shelly. They're worse than any cop because they have lots of money and no rules. You fuck them, you've got to do it right.
Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Do you have any idea what you are saying? You are asking me to help you fuck the mob.
Caesar will bring it to the apartment to count and go through |Shelly's books to figure out how he did it.
Shelly said it was over two million dollars.
How much money?
Caesar is going to get the money and bring --
If those quarters fell to the floor, would you still reach up to that cash register?
You made a choice once. Do you think you would make that same choice again?
I want out. I want a new life. I see what I've been waiting for, but I need you, Corky.
He's the part of the business that the rest of them pretend to be. |But Mickey doesn't like it like they do. I suppose that's why he's good at it.
Caesar lives for these moments. He tells me it's just the business, but I know it's more than that. He likes it. The violence. I'll catch him in the bathroom mirror touching his scars. He says they remind him who he his. They're all like that. Except maybe Mickey.
Maybe he did. He would brag to me all the time. He was never afraid of Caesar because he didn't know him. Not like I do.
Sounds like he wanted to get caught.
For Shelly, taking the money was a way to take from Caesar. He could have run at any time, but he didn't because he didn't want out.
That's what he told himself. But it wasn't even about me, it was about Caesar. He wanted what Caesar had. That's how they are. I understand them.
He was in love with you, right?
Even though he knew about you?
Shelly was skimming from the business. He came to see me yesterday because he was afraid Caesar figured it out. He wanted to run but he wanted me to come with him.
I think so, too.
Fuck it! I think you better leave.
I suppose he just wants to watch.
No. Shelly knows what I am. He saw me in a bar with another woman.
Don't tell me, you're a workaholic.
You mean Shelly?
What about that guy this morning?
We make our own choices and we pay our own prices. I think we're more alike than you want to admit.
What was it then?
All my life, everyone has been telling me that when I have sex, I'm not really having sex. Not real sex. But they're wrong. I know what is and isn't sex and what you heard was definitely not sex.
What the fuck was it?
What you heard wasn't sex.
For Christ's sake, Violet! I heard you! Thin walls, remember?
What are you saying? That you don't have sex with men?
I know what I am. I don't need to have it tattooed on my shoulder.
Is that what her daddy tells her?
Oh no, she's nothing like you. She's a lot smarter than you.
Let me guess. This is where you tell me that what matters is on the inside. That inside you, there is a little dyke just like me?
Because it's the truth.
How can you sit in that bed and say that?
We're not that different, Corky.
I know! You can't understand, because we're different, Violet. We're different.
I don't understand - ?
I'm not afraid of anything.
What are you afraid of?
If there is one thing I can't stand about sleeping with women, it's all the fucking mind reading.
You didn't want to see me, did you?
Shit, here we go.
Yes there is. I felt it this morning when I brought you the coffee.
So am I.
I'm glad you did.
I guess I wanted to.
You didn't have to tell me if you didn't want to.
My cellmate would say she did her time for getting caught. She was always more honest than me.
I'm already in your bed.
That's what I tell someone when I'm trying to get them in my bed.
The redistribution of wealth?
Isn't that what you wanted to know? What I did time for?
The redistribution of wealth.
Yes, it is.
Five years is a long time.
Almost five years.
How long have you been with him?
He's a launderer?
They took over a club I was working at. Caesar started managing it.
How did you meet him?
Funny, nobody calls it that anymore. Caesar calls it "The |Business."
You have to ask?
Caesar's Mafia, isn't he?
Tell me about it.
... I needed that.
Don't apologize, please. I can't stand women who apologize for wanting sex.
I wanted to apologize.
Look, I don't think this is a good idea.
I had to see you.
If I say yes, will you take your hand away?
You dropped that earring down the drain on purpose, didn't you?
Because I want to. I've wanted to since I first saw you in the elevator.
Isn't it obvious? I'm trying to seduce you.
I have a tattoo, would you like to see it?
Are you surprised that I know what it is?
Curious? That's funny, I'm feeling a bit curious myself right now.
You seem uncomfortable. Do I make you nervous, Corky?
A beer. Of course.
What do you want?
Okay, one drink.
No. Mr. Bianchinni asked me to do it. I did it.
Thank you so much. You have to let me pay you something --
Do you have a pot or a bucket?
I told Bianchinni I would take a look. Is it that sink?
I'm sorry, look, forget it. I shouldn't have called...
Yeah, come on in.
He said you lost something.
I'm sorry, I usually would call Rajeev, but I didn't know what to do so I called Mr. Bianchinni.
Oh no. Shit. I didn't know he would call you. God, you must think |I'm a total nuisance.
I should be going. You can drop the cup off anytime.
Oh no, no. I'm not the marrying kind.
Caesar is your husband?
No, but Caesar does. He likes him. Says he's a good Italian.
Do you know him?
I don't, really. I was referred to him.
So, how do you know the owner, Mr. Bianchinni?
I knew it.
Truck. Of course.
That is so amazing. I'm in awe of people who can fix things. My dad was like that. We never had anything new. Whenever something broke he would open it up, tinker with it and it would work. His hands were magic.
You're doing everything yourself?
No, no trouble. There's other work to do.
Yes, it really causes problems. Sometimes it's like you're in the same room. But if it's too much trouble, I understand ...
Are they really?
No, it isn't your fault. The walls here are just so thin.
Oh, I'm sorry --
Yeah, see, I'm kind of a night person, so I was wondering if it wasn't a terrible inconvenience if you could wait a bit before using power tools.
My pleasure ... but to be honest, I did have a slightly ulterior motive here. I was wondering if I could ask a small favor?
Mmmm ... thanks, I needed this.
I guessed you were straight black.
Pretty much. One day at a time.
So this is temporary for you?
Oh, he went home to India, but as far as I know he'll be back.
Rajeev, the man who usually works on the building.
I heard you working in here and I just wondered if you'd like a cup of coffee?
Yeah, sure. I'm Corky.
Hi. My name is Violet. We sort of met in the elevator --
Pop, this is important to me. It's a simple question. if he would just answer the question, that's the end of it.
Johnnie, what did I say?
Hey, Johnnie ...
Unbelievable. Can you believe that, Violet?
Jesus Christ, Pop. You got two hours until your plane leaves.
Done. We go now.
Caesar, come here. Sit. We talk now. You too, Johnnie.
No, Johnnie. No goddamned phones. Not now.
You are as radiant as ever, Violet.
Hey, Caesar! You take care of this girl, or I find out!
Thanks, Mickey, but I need to get out, you know? Get away from all of this.
Sure you're going to be okay? I mean, if you're having second thoughts, my offer still stands.
I know you will.
I told you, the family doesn't want the police around. We want to take care of it ourselves and we will. I'll find him. I swear I will.
I will never understand it, Mickey. You didn't even call the police.
Mickey! Oh God, Mickey!
I think everything is okay.
Oh my God. Was anyone hurt?
Violet, it's Gino and Johnnie. They were in a car accident.
Mickey? What are you doing here?
Caesar? What the fuck time is it?
Don't worry about Caesar. I'll handle Caesar. You just get out of here, okay?
Caesar wants me to stay.
You shouldn't have to see this. Why don't you get out of here? Go for a walk.
I can't call it off. He's not responding. Get out of my way.
You just blew up a house in Paris! This program is over. Call it off.
You're not doing shit. You're so scared you can't even think.
<u>No you're not</u>. You're not going anywhere. I'm shutting this down.
I'm going to Paris.
We're in the shitter, man! Pick your poison. Maybe he's in there to finish the job. Maybe he's working for Wombosi. Maybe they want to go on TV together. Every possibility sucks -- we've got to move!
We don't know what we're into!
What do you want to do?
-- that's what they're trained for -- just a surgical strike.
-- <u>inside</u> the house? --
-- if we can get a clean shot --
-- he went inside! --
This doesn't go upstairs.
Our last sighting was forty-eight hours ago. Even if they stayed in the car, the grid is huge. This is it. He's trained -- conditioned -- they're built to disappear. You give him another day to run and we may never find him.
No. We can't risk it.
Turn? To who? Where does he turn? What does he have to offer? He's got nothing. He's a killer. He's a piece of equipment for crissake. Where's he gonna turn?
What if he <u>is</u> working for someone else? What if he turned?
That was two hours -- two hours to get a second opinion -- and nothing changes. He's loose. He's out of control. It's very clear what needs to happen. I have work to do.
I'm not asking.
<u>This is an operations desk</u>.
I want a second opinion.
We've been down here for two weeks banging our heads against the wall. We've been <u>sleeping</u> down here. We just got our first lead fourteen hours ago, and now? -- now that we <u>finally</u> have something to work with -- you want to bring planning personnel down here? I'd rethink that.
Yes, well, I think we need some fresh eyes on this problem. I'm bringing in some people from upstairs.
No. Pursuit <u>ends</u> when we know exactly where he is.
Pursuit would indicate that you know exactly where he is.
We're exploring <u>every</u> possibility. We are in pursuit. How much more do you want me to tell you?
I'm assuming we're exploring that possibility.
She's a gypsy. If it's a cover, it's a great one.
Then I'd have to explain Treadstone. And you'd have to explain how you let me get this far. Doesn't sound like much of a Plan-B, does it? We'll clean up the field. You clean up your budgets.
And what if I couldn't do that?
You'd want to make that go away. You'd want to remind them that Treadstone is a training organization. That it's all theoretical. You'd want to sign off on that.
They're putting together an agency oversight committee. They're going to look through everyone's budgets. Treadstone is a rather sizable line item in my ledger. What am I going to do about that?
I thought you were never going to do that.
You're asking me a direct question?
We're talking about Marseille. We're talking about Nykwana Wombosi. And I'm asking you if this abortion in Marseille has anything to do with Treadstone. Was this Treadstone?
I don't know what we're talking about.
Storm clouds are gathering, Ted. It looks like rain and I don't have a thing to wear.
...they won't let you go...
What do they want me to do?
...someone said caffeine -- for a headache...doesn't seem...
I think so.
...what did you do?...you must've really fucked up...
What is Treadstone?
...or in a car...when it's dark...something with the headlights... ...pills, right? Treadstone had those pills...
...it's a problem...
...headaches...you have that...I get such bad headaches...
Paris. I live in Paris...
...which one are you?...
Who are you? Rome? Paris? Treadstone...both of us...I was warned but...
What do you mean?
I work alone. Like you... ...we always work alone.
I won't ask again.
That'll be their second worst mistake.
Jason... They can't let you go...
<u>There never was a Jason Bourne</u>. You have to come with me. It's the only way. We can give it back to you...
Jason Bourne is dead.
We have to go home, Jason.
I don't think so.
We'll make you better. We can put the pieces back. We can do that.
That's all I get?
So it's time to go home.
So now you know.
Of course. We had to try. We didn't know what was wrong. We didn't know you were in trouble.
I know you've been trying to kill me.
They're right about you, aren't they? You're fried. You really don't know what's going on, do you?
I don't know.
What did I do? I spent thirty million dollars on you. I spent three years finding you -- four years training you -- What did I do? What in the name of God have you been doing, Jason?
<u>What did you do to me</u>?
Am I Treadstone? Me? What the hell're you talking about?
Are you Treadstone?
Get the kids out!
I don't know.
<u>Was this a game or a fuck up</u>?
I know who sent you. I don't know why. I learned many, many things from the CIA. <u>Many</u> things. I learned the way they think. Was the bomb on my boat supposed to go off or not?
Who do you think sent me?
It's a lot more stressful than I thought.
I think investment advice from a dead man, it's a bad idea. How does it feel to be dead?
Did you bring investment advice for me tonight? It was tax shelters, wasn't it? Swiss debenture-swaps.
Yeah, I know...
Sir, you waited on line.
Look, maybe I should just...
<u>Do you have your passport, sir</u>?
I have a passport. I've got... Actually, it's a little complicated.
You have your passport?
Well, either you are, or you aren't.
Yes. I mean, I think so. Yes. Yes...
You're a U.S. Citizen?
One moment, sir.
Kane. Do you have Mr. John Michael Kane?
-- hang on -- I need you to check another name for me -- hang on -- un moment, s'il vous plait --
-- sir? --
D'accord... Merci. Un moment -- un moment --
One moment, please... I'm afraid, I have no one by that name registered, sir.
Yes, I'm...I'm looking for Mr. Jason Bourne.
Yes, sir... How can I help you?
...yes -- oui -- uh...
I think not... No, I'm sorry. It was very sudden. He was here very briefly.
Do you -- his brother -- do you have a phone number?
It's very bad this. Terrible sad. Such a young man.
Right. Yes. Of course.
His brother. You know his brother?
Who? Who came?
...we actually, we were unaware for several days that this had happened. When they came for his things, it was made known for us, you see?
There was an accident. On the motorway. Apparently, he was killed instantly. Really, I'm terrible sorry to be the one to tell you this...
I have some very bad news for you, sir. I'm terrible sorry to have to tell you this, but Monsieur Kane has passed away almost two weeks ago...
You are a friend of his?
Yes. Is he there?
You call about Monsieur Kane? John Michael Kane?
Yes, I'm here...
Bonjour? Monsieur? Allo...
That'd be great.
Let me get you a new copy of the proposal.
I hadn't heard.
We also thought we hadn't heard from you -- we've had a bit of a publicity nightmare, people have been talking. Our offices were broken into -- vandalism mostly -- shortly after we last spoke.
Was it the break-in?
We just picked up a job quite like the one we were bidding for you. Gorgeous boat, hundred-and-seventy- five-foot pleasure cruiser. I think we learned a few things that might allow us to make our proposal for your job, as I said, a bit more competitive.
Look, our bid -- it was competitive -- but definitely at the high end of competitive -- when we didn't hear back from you, we did some re-analysis of the numbers, and honestly, we'd really like a chance to do a bit better. I'm assuming you're still in the market. It's the same vessel?
Well, I mean it's a tough business, isn't it? Cutthroat.
We thought you were gone for good.
Well... I must admit, when my assistant told me you were here I was, really -- I was quite -- I was surprised.
Mr. Kane... Come right in...please...have a seat.
You have ID?
Think I could rent a scooter?
This your store?
Can I help you?
I'm gonna find the end of this. I can't protect you.
What about you?
I can't protect you anymore.
What was I thinking, right?
If you're lucky. Take it. There's enough in there to make a life. Any life. Just get out now. Get low. Stay low. <u>Take it</u>.
And that's it?
We have to keep moving.
Who is it?
I won't let that happen.
Stop where you are.
Yes. That's who I want to be.
You could do that?
It doesn't matter who you were before. It's who you want to be. That's all that matters. We have this money. We have what we have. I had nothing before and now, I don't know, maybe I have more, maybe it's nothing, but... I say we leave here. We leave this place. We go until we can't go anymore.
Go back to the hotel.
<u>So what are we doing</u>?
I don't know.
What does that mean? Jason, what does that mean? Jason, please...who is he?
It's a name. Mr. Wombosi owns a thirty million dollar yacht. He's the proud owner of an Alliance Security package. He also paid a visit to the morgue to see John Michael Kane.
What is that?
-- I don't know what you're doing and you're scaring me -- what are you looking for? -- what just happened in there? --
Let's go -- We got to get away from this phone.
I found it. It took six calls. I found Kane. I found the body.
It's a company... MPG Capital.
Who paid the bill?
You stayed there five times in the past six months. But I didn't have time -- I could only get the bill from the last stay -- you were there for two days. Some room service -- there's half a dozen phone calls here so that's someth--
I don't know what happened! I don't know who he is! I don't know what he wants! I don't even know who I am! The only thing I know is that if I stay here, I'm never gonna find out!
-- we'll tell them what happened --
-- forget it --
-- there's two of us -- we'll tell them -- we'll just --
-- how? --
-- we'll explain it --
-- there's no time --
But the police --
You stay -- if you want, you stay -- it's okay -- it's better -- maybe it's better -- I don't know -- But I can't stay here. <u>I can't</u>.
And where is he now? You believe what you want, but I'm telling you the truth -- I never would have brought you here if I thought it was dangerous.
He had my picture! He knew I was here! He came here to kill us!
I didn't know this would happen.
I don't trust anybody and I trusted you!
You're wrong. I didn't know.
I trusted you.
You knew he was coming.
-- we can go -- I can get us out of here -- but we have to go now --
He came to kill us.
-- we can't stay here -- I can't stay here -- it's not safe here --
He went out the window -- why? -- why would someone do that?
Marie -- look at me -- there's no time for this --
He's dead isn't he?
-- do what? -- what are you doing? -- he's got my picture -- -- he's -- my God -- look at him -- he's bleeding to death -- my picture -- look! -- he was trying to kill us! -- omigod --
-- let me do this, okay? --
-- he's got my picture! -- this is yesterday! -- this is me! -- -- where did you get my picture? --
Marie, just -- -- just stay there! -- just --
-- where does this come from? -- How do you have my picture?
-- just --
...this is my picture... he's got my picture -- -- this is me -- this is Zurich -- this...this...this is yesterday --
What? -- what? -- -- what is it?
WHY ARE YOU TRYING TO KILL ME?
Open it -- -- do it -- what's he got in there?
-- what're you doing? -- Jason, please, tell me what's happening!
-- quiet -- <u>quiet</u> --
-- please -- Jason -- omigod --
-- no -- Marie -- <u>no</u>! -- it's not like that --
See. It's starting to come back, yeah? You mind if I take a bath?
All this stuff -- it's all about boats. I think I'm in the shipping business.
This is your office? God, you live like a monk...
I guess so.
This is like a real apartment. This is really yours?
How could I forget about you? You're the only person I know.
Nah... With you, I mean, you'd probably just forget about me, right?
Look, you could come up. Or you could wait if you want. I could go check it out. You could wait.
You got me pretty fucking curious.
Look, I don't know what's up there.
Thanks for the ride.
I don't remember any of this.
I should go.
So this is it, right?
Yeah. Pull in here. Park it.
No. No. Go around. Keep going...
Four-fifty. That's the address...
That's it? Is that it?
Slow down. No, don't stop. Just...
I thought about it. I don't know.
You ever think maybe you have a family?
I dream I'm asleep. I dream that I'm asleep and I can't wake up. I don't think I smoke.
You were tired. Here... For twenty-thousand I like to throw in breakfast. So what do you dream about?
I can't believe I slept.
We're about an hour away.
Where are we?
I needed a break.
You're paranoid. You were shot. It's natural.
Why do I? -- I come in here -- instinctively -- first thing I do -- I'm looking for the exit -- I'm catching the sightlines -- I know I can't sit with my back to the door --
People do amazing things when they're scared.
I fought my way out of an embassy. I climbed down a fifty-foot wall -- I went out the window and I was doing it -- I just did it. I knew how to do it.
Lots of people have guns. You're American. Americans love guns.
There was a gun. Who has a safe deposit box with a gun and all this money and all these passports?
Okay, so you're a victim.
I was shot twice in the back.
Sounds like you were in an accident or something.
I don't know.
What are you talking about?
-- which was okay for a while, I was okay with it... But then -- there's all these other things -- all these other things I know how to do -- and this -- this stuff from the bank and... I think something bad happened.
-- you could put it together --
I kept trying things, I thought if I could find all the things I could do, I could --
Well, this is great. I'm sick of myself and you have no idea who you are.
Nothing. It's just not there.
When you think of it, before the ship -- before you wake up on the ship, what do you see?
And you have no idea -- not a clue -- what came before that?
That's what I'm saying.
Amnesia? You're saying you don't remember anything that happened before two weeks ago?
Look, go ahead...put the radio on...
What? Like amnesia?
No. No, I mean, I really don't know who I am. I can't remember anything earlier than two weeks ago. I'm serious.
Yeah, well, welcome to the club.
I don't know. I don't know who I am.
Who pays twenty thousand dollars for a ride to Paris?
Listen to what you want.
What does that mean?
I don't know.
I don't know. Smile. Sneeze. Something. You've got a bag full of money and a ride to Paris. Fuck it, I don't know... What kind of music do you like?
I'm sorry. Really. What do you want me to do?
Shit -- Can I tell you how much you're freaking me out? Okay? Because you are -- you're completely freaking me out.
I know that.
Just so you know, if you're gonna burn me on the money, you might as well kill me. I was supposed to have this car back three days ago. It's not my car.
Then I'll find another ride.
What if I say no?
I won't hurt you.
And I don't get hurt. I get twenty thousand dollars and I don't get hurt.
I don't want to go alone. I want you to drive me to Paris. Like we're a couple. Like we're a couple and we're travelling together. That's all we're doing.
You could buy a car for twenty grand. You could buy this car.
I don't want anything but a ride. All I want to do is go home.
You swear? That's great. I feel so much better now.
Look, I want a ride to Paris. That's all I want. I swear.
-- get the fuck out of here -- all this money, this crazy offer, I mean give me a fucking break with this, this is --
Wait up -- -- just wait up --
<u>No</u>. No, that was too easy --
Okay. Twenty thousand. Ten now. Ten there.
You have blood on your pants.
I said ten thousand.
For twenty thousand dollars.
I want to go home.
So what's in Paris?
Get me out of here. <u>Please</u>.
You don't want the police any more than I do.
Great. You know what? I'll give you ten gazillion dollars to get the fuck away from me before I start screaming my head off.
I'll give you ten thousand dollars to drive me to Paris.
Get the fuck away from my car.
I've got a situation here and --
It's a little late for that.
Please. I don't want to scare you.
I need a ride out of here.
I need a ride.
-- here we go -- I found it --
-- this is serious business down here and we cannot have people coming and going --
-- what do I? -- I put the name of the person I came to see? --
-- we have rules here, this is a very serious place -- I'm the one who decides who gets in here, okay? --
-- don't sweat it, I have a pen -- no problem -- just let me find the page -- -- honey, why don't you wait for me outside, okay? --
-- slow down -- you can't just take the book like that --
Is this it? -- -- this is it, right? --
Fine. But I'd like to sign in. In fact, I insist on it. Where's the book? I gotta sign in --
So get the hell out of here.
Shit, we didn't sign in.
I said, someone came last night -- Look, this isn't a carnival -- people call and they make an appointment and they follow the rules -- everyone signs in and out -- this is a serious place -- serious work -- it's not just to come in whenever you like --
Where did this body go?
Wait a minute --
You're in danger. All of you. I have no time to explain.
What the hell're you talking about?
Get everyone down in the basement.
Get in the basement.
That old beast? Miss his breakfast? Not a chance. It's always something, right?
He run away often?
My husband's out looking for him.
Where's the dog?
So now you're asking for a student visa?
-- I'm the one that got ripped off! -- not you -- not the United States government -- me -- I'm the one being ripped off!
-- Miss Kreutz, please --
-- I paid this fucking guy -- I paid him four thousand dollars -- my last four thousand dollars to marry me, okay? -- I told this to the case officer last week... ...<u>here</u> -- Mr. Thomas. I told Mr. Thomas I didn't know this guy was already married -- I admitted this!
-- it's not the source of the information that's important here --
You only know that because I told you! Ask the case officer -- find his name -- it's on the papers -- I told him all this myself! --
<u>Miss Kreutz</u>, excuse me, but you entered into a fraudulent marriage in an effort to circumvent the immigration laws of the United States --
All the papers -- all the papers they asked for -- I brought all the papers --
Miss Kreutz, please... I'm gonna have to ask you to keep your voice down.
-- I want that red car -- the girl -- we gotta get lucky here --
-- I'm on it --
-- let's check that Interpol window again --
It's an angle of the street -- some sort of alleyway -- you can just...
What do they have on the streets? The area. They must have something.
That's the only angle.
And that's the best angle of the courtyard?
That'll solve all our problems.
Abbott. He knows about the embassy. He's coming down for a show and tell.
All of them?
It doesn't matter now. We've just got to be the first ones there. Get everybody up. I want them all activated.
Maybe it's a game. Maybe he's trying to send us a message.
What the fuck is he doing?
Zurich police are looking for an American with a red bag. Apparently he put two cops in the hospital last night.
-- yes, sir, it's confirmed --
-- but it was <u>him</u> --
-- he accessed the account --
-- and they're sure it's him? --
Tell him we're busy.
Abbott wants to talk.
-- he's running from the cops, he's got a bag filled with God knows what, he's in the building and I don't know where! --
-- you gotta give me more to go on --
-- call the code! -- I want everyone out! --
-- we're in the middle of a trade meeting! --
-- we're evacuating the building --
-- what're you talking about? --
I won't forget this.
It's not much, but it should get you to Switzerland.
I don't know.
You drink rum?
I don't remember Zurich.
Look, I'm just on this boat, okay? I'm an engineer. Whatever this is, it's not for me to be involved, okay?
It came from your hip. Under the skin. You have a bank in Zurich. You remember Zurich?
I told you. You need to rest.
What if it doesn't come back?
You we're lost at sea. They pulled you out. Who are you? You were shot -- two bullets -- in the back. You understand me? Who are you?
How did I get here?
You're on a boat. A fishing boat. Italian flag. We're out of Vietri. It's the cold that saved you. The water. The wounds are clean. I'm not a doctor, but the wounds, it looks okay. It's clean.
<u>Where am I</u>?
You're American. I thought so. From your teeth -- the dental work --
Where am I?
You're awake. Can you hear me? You've been shot. I'm trying to help you. You were in the water. You've been shot. It's okay now.
What have you done to my flat?
... And then some.
I fixed it myself.
I haven't got an emergency. Get out of here.
Uh - what? - I ...
... get to it.
Sign the form so we can get to it.
... new washer.
I think you've got your T41 crystal inductor wired up to a reverse bobbin- threaded-solenoid-control. It's either that or a new washer.
... yer ducts.
This is what you get when you have cowboys round yer ducts.
... ere please.
Sign here, please.
...sod you, stupid twit.
You're putting your talents to very odd use Mr Lowry - yes, odd use - to pit wits against Central Services -
Central Services don't take kindly to sabotage!
Oh yeh? Where'd you get this from eh out yer nostril?
Tuttle! ... mumble! You've had that scab Tuttle here, haven't you?
Mumble ... Tuttle ...
Mumble ... mumble ... mumble ... Tuttle
What have you got there?
... have a look.
I think we'd better have a look.
...ampered. with it, Spoor.
He's tampered with it, Dowser.
... fix themselves.
Machines don't fix themselves.
Trouble with your air-conditioning.
You telephone, sir.
You must save the day.
What do I have to do.
Well not exactly. But, if you help us we'll help you. The Forces Of Darkness have won the day ... but, tomorrow is another one
What? You mean you've got ...
Oh, yes. We've got everything here. Every bit of knowledge, wisdom, learning ... every experience, every thought neatly filed away.
We know that too. You've come to the right place.
Then perhaps you can help me. I've lost someone who ...
We know everything here. This is the Storeroom of Knowledge.
What? How do you know my name?
Ah ha ... there you are, Sam.
Do you mind if I use your bathroom?
Yes, it was ... very nice ... thank you.
Yes, I know. It's the backlog, everybody complains. Was it all right otherwise?
Aren't you a bit late? - the party started half an hour ago.
Oh, right ...
You don't have to sing it.
Oh ... Thank you very much, mother, but actually -
It's reply paid.
Er ... Thanks ...
He will be pleased when he comes home.
I'm waiting for my daddy.
Jill Layton ... You're a very good little girl. What are you doing here?
What? ...Jill? Jill who? Jill who?
Her name is Jill.
Thank you, David ... and a very merry Christmas to you all.
Thank you very much, Deputy Minister.
But the bombing campaign is now in its thirteenth year ...
On yes. Our morale is much higher than theirs, we're fielding all their strokes, running a lot of them out, and pretty consistently knocking them for six. I'd say they're nearly out of the game.
Do you think that the government is winning the battle against terrorists?
I understand this concern on behalf of the tax-payers. People want value for money and a cost-effective service.
And the cost of it all, Deputy Minister? Seven percent of the gross national produce ...
David ... in a free society information is the name of the game. You can't win the game if you're a man short.
Mr. HELPMANN, what would you say to those critics who maintain that the Ministry Of Information has become too large and unwieldy ...?
- In fact, killing people - they'd get a lot more out of life.
In fact, killing people -
Bad sportsmanship. A ruthless minority of people seems to have forgotten certain good old fashioned virtues. They just can't stand seeing the other fellow win. If these people would just play the game, instead of standing on the touch line heckling -
Deputy minister, what do you believe is behind this recent increase in terrorist bombings?
No, no ... I did that...
Yes, it's all a bit confusing but, it seems she was killed resisting arrest.
Sam, I think I ought to tell you ... I'm afraid she's upped stumps and retired to the pavilion.
Please, I've got to find Jill.
Sam, if you've been going out there and playing a straight bat, all the way down the line, you've got absolutely nothing to worry about.
I'm not a terrorist! You must know that! I'm not guilty! Get me out of here!
Yes, well, from the Department's point of view you're certainly a bit of an own goal, but ...
This is all a mistake! Don't you understand?!
I assure you, Sam, I'm doing everything within my power. But the rules of the game are laid down, and we all have to play by them - even me.
I understand, Sam, I know exactly how you feel. So I brought you a bottle of barley water.
Yes, you've got to get me out of here. I've got to find her.
Where's Jill? What have you done to her? Where is she?!
Sam, what are we going to do with you? Can you hear me, Sam?
Well ... well, I ...
Too late? That's for me to say.
Mr Helpmann. I've changed my mind. I'd like to accept the transfer - am I too late?
I know he would have wanted me to help you ... And I promised your mother I'd take you onto the team at information Retrieval. But I gather that ...
Your father and I were very close. Of course Jeremiah was senior to me but we were close friends ... especially after the bombing and I keep his name alive at the office every day.
Well, I ...
If I can help you ...
That's all right Mr Helpmann. Glad to help.
Thanks very much Sam.
Shut up! This is a professional relationship!
How do you think I feel? You shit!
Help me, Jack! I'm frightened!
How could you do this to me?
You stupid bastard!
This is all a mistake. Jack, please take that mask off.
Jack, I'm innocent! Help me.
Well, could you stay away from me until this thing blows over.
Yes we have, Jack!
Sam - we've always been close, haven't we?
Jack, she's innocent!
There are no coincidences, Sam. Everything's connected, all along the line. Cause and effect. That's the beauty of it. Our job is to trace the connections and reveal them. This whole Buttle/Tuttle confusion was obviously planned from the inside. Bye bye.
It could all be coincidental.
I do. Goodbye.
You don't really think Tuttle and the girl are in league?
Tell that to the wives of the Security men she blew up this afternoon. Listen, we've also had a report just in from Central Services that Tuttle has wrecked an entire flat and sabotaged adjacent Central Services systems - as a matter of fact, in your block. I'd keep my eyes open if I were you, Sam. Bye.
She's innocent, Jack --- she's done nothing wrong.
I'm sorry, Sam, I'm afraid this whole case has become much more complicated since last we talked.
Come off it, Jack! Of course you can check to see if she's been arrested.
Sam ... we're proud to have you at Information Retrieval. Merry Xmas.
Do you know what you're doing.
Thanks, Jack. I'll be in touch.
Er ... alright. For Christ's sake don't lose it. Here, you'd better sign for it.
Well, I'd better get out there and try to get to her before security does. Let me borrow her dossier for a while.
We don't make mistakes.
Say it was a mistake.
There's no procedure for that until she's been arrested.
Take her off the list.
But, I've already put her on the search and detain list.
They weren't at school with us.
Right! Just between as and the Security Forces.
Then we'd better keep this business just between the two of us.
You're the only person I can trust.
And you're mine.
Of course. We went to school together. You're my oldest friend.
Trust me. You do trust me, don't you?
What does that mean? I don't want to be involved in anything unsavoury.
Let me try to get to her. I'll deactivate her.
Well, I ... Good point. What do you suggest?
You mean you're going to invite her in so that she can spill the beans inside the department?
Get her out of circulation - I've put her on the detention list.
So what are you going to do about her?
Kindness? What's the purpose behind this line of enquiry?
Out of kindness.
{baffled) I don't follow you.
Why? Hell, not for any reason ...
Look, about the Layton woman - maybe she's just trying to help the Buttle family.
Barbara's a perfectly good name, isn't it?
Right. Er, you're not going to keep calling her Barbara, are you?
Look after that suit, eh. Barbara chose it for me.
But surely, I mean, perhaps she just happened to live above the Buttles, and ...
She witnessed the Tuttle arrest - the Buttle arrest - and since then she's been making wild allegations, obviously trying to exploit the situation - she's working for somebody, and she's not working for us.
Tell me about Layton.
Yes. I'm impressed.
Er ... but I would've found out anyway.
Er ... no.
You didn't know as much about this business as you pretended to, did you?
What's she done?
He's a compulsive heating engineer. A maverick ex-Central Service repair man with a grudge against society. Now, fortunately, we're nearly out of the wood, I think. At least we will be when I get this Layton woman under arrest.
He's a freelance subversive?
We suspect him of freelance subversion.
What has Tuttle done?
What I've got to do now is pick up Tuttle, interrogate him at the same voltage as Buttle, to the same meter reading to the last penny, and juggle the books in electrical banking.
So how ...?
There are some real bastards in this department who don't mind breaking a few eggs to make an omelette, but thank God there are the new boys like me who want to maintain decent civilized standards of terrorist eradication. We've got the upper hand for the moment, but they're waiting for us to slip up, and a little slip- up like this is just the chance they're looking for.
I'm sure you have
Sam, there are very rigid parameters laid down to avoid that event but Buttle's heart condition did not appear on Tuttle's file. Don't think I'm dismissing this business, Sam. I've lost a week's sleep over it already.
You killed him?
I did not get the wrong man. I got the right man. The wrong man was delivered to me as the right man! I accepted him, on trust, as the right man. Was I wrong? Anyway, to add to the confusion, he died on us. Which, had he been the right man, he wouldn't have done.
You got the wrong man.
Well, your A. Buttle has been confused with T47/215, an A. Tuttle. I mean, it's a joke! Somebody should be shot for that. So B58/732 was pulled in by mistake.
No, no, I don't. I'm just beginning Honestly. Sorry, carry on.
Christ! You do know it all!
B58/732, that's A. Buttle isn't it?
OK. OK. Let's not fence around ... This is the situation. Some idiot somewhere in the building, some insect, confused two of our clients, B58/732 and T47/215.
Not really, no.
Enough though, eh?
How much do you know?
How do you mean?
Please, Sam, we're going to have to be open to each other on this one. If you make a reputation with this case, it'll be at my expense.
You clever bastard! I might have guessed. You only moved in today and you're already hot on the bloody trail.
What is it?
Layton! Oh shit!
I've got numbers all over these - I'm not sure which is the one you want.
OK. Come back this afternoon, about four o'clock. If you give me the number of the case, I'll have the dossier here waiting. My tailor,... well worth the investment.
I don't want to take up your time now, but I was hoping you could give me some information on somebody. It's a security level three matter and Information Retrieval records says to refer to you.
Terrific. I'm really glad you dropped by. Unfortunately, I don't have any time right now I've got a queue of customers to deal with - er, why don't we have a drink tonight?
For my sins. Are you settling in alright?
Thanks. Are you officer 412/L?
Sorry about that ... Mr Helpmann told me you were coming aboard - congratulations!
Are you officer 412/L?
SAM! What a surprise!
Quite, absolutely - I always thought they were false.
Dr. Jaffe has pinned her ears back.
What? - Oh, yes - vividly. I used to wonder if they were real.
Remember how they used to stick out?
Er, I knew you looked different.
{winking at Sam) She doesn't like me telling anyone but she's pleased as anything really.
You remember Alison?
Really? - God, how time flies!
Yes, I know, fantastic, marvellous, wonderful - remember me to Alison - and the - er - twins.
Sam, your life is going wrong - let your friends tell you - Records is a dead end department, no Security Level worth a damn, it's impossible to get noticed -
You are late.
Sorry. Nothing. See you - I'm going to be late.
What's the matter?
Me? - if I'm worried about anyone, it's you. What happened to you, Sam? You were the brightest of us -
You sound worried.
Problem? - No problem - yes, everything's going fantastically well, wonderful, marvelous, great career prospects, Alison in great shape, kids fine, beautiful home, I'm on Security Level Five now, and Mr Helpmann relies on me more and more, yes, couldn't be better, I feel terrifically motivated and job- rewarded -
Well, since you disappeared up the ladder of Information Retrieval ... I don't expect to see you slumming in Records - what's the problem?
Long time no see!
Well don't. You're looking at twenty pounds of high explosive! And if you don't stamp this form I'm going to blow the place up!
I bet you'd like to touch them?
You think these are tits don't you?
If you say so.
You're a stupid, fat arsed, obstructive, fascist moron aren't you?
You've just said yourself, Miss, we've already stamped it. Why should we stamp it twice?
But you've stamped this form before! Why won't you stamp it now?
Where do I get it stamped?
No, there's no stamp on it. You see! I can't give you the form until it's stamped.
Is it stamped?
Have you got an Arrest Receipt?
I've been to Information Adjustments. They sent me here. They told me you had a form I had to fill in.
You want Information Adjustments. Different department.
I want to report a wrongful arrest.
You don't exist any more. I've killed you. Jill Layton is dead.
What do you think? ... is it me?
Thanks for the vote of confidence.
Don't do anything silly.
I'm going to pull some strings. It's our only hope.
Where are you going?
Make yourself at home. Don't answer the phone or open he door to anyone. I won't be long.
C'mon. We've got to get out of here.
Don't you like parties?
Are you sure?
No. No. I'm fine. I was worried sick about you ... I thought ...
Your face ... are you hurt?
What happened to you after ...
Jill! What are you do ... I mean ... how did you ... Are you alright?
No you're not!
I'm going to open it!
Oh ... Jesus!
........... It's a bomb isn't it?
I saved you from the lorry and you're not very special.
I vas just trying to help. I decided to trust you. Maybe I was wrong. Whose side are you on really? Who are your friends? Who was the man who gave you the parcel? What's in it? It's the only thing you saved from the lorry .... It must he something very special.
You mean you were meant to hijack my truck, make me crash it, and have every security man in town looking for me?
You've got to trust me. It sounds silly but I know we were meant to meet.
Leave me alone!
There are plenty of other safe places. Why don't we go back to my flat?
Please, Jill ... I love you.
Are you still following me?
This is a hell of a time to buy a nightie.
Yes. Come out, I know you're in there
"Lady bird, lady bird, fly away home, your house is on fire and your children all gone" ... Do you think anyone's hurt?
"And your children all gone."
Shit! The house is on fire!
It wasn't supposed to happen like this.
We? Don't blame me!
Oh God! What have we done?
Come on, let's go! Let's get out of here!
Sam ... we can't outrace them. You'll kill us!
Now you're the one that's out of your mind.
Let go! We've got to stop!
I was right! Step on it!
Stop it ... damn you!
Will you please turn back.
Cut it out, Sam.
Yes ... but, this is real. Now, stop!
I thought you arrested me.
No. Please. They're going to arrest you.
They'll be there waiting.
Well, almost ... unfortunately I do have to punch in by 5.00 every day.
What? I thought you were free to come and go as you please.
Look at that - right on time.
Actual. terrorists? Well ... it's only my first day.
How many terrorists have you met? Actual terrorists?
Well, terrorists of course.
Who is this war against, Sam?
Well, all wars do -
Say, all wars have innocent victims.
Well, no system is.
Why don't you say, no system is perfect.
They couldn't be worse for the Buttles.
Things would be worse without Information Retrieval.
We've got both.
What do you mean? Would you rather have terrorists?
Don't you know the sort of thing that Information Retrieval does?
I mean, it doesn't suit you.
Looking for you.
What are you doing in Information Retrieval?
A heavy Christmas present.
OK. What's in the parcel?
What does it look like ... I'm collecting empties.
What's going on here?
Where are you taking me?
It does doesn't it?
Ah ... Er ... It looks as if you're taking me.
Where are you taking me?
Where are you taking me?
It had a hole in the floor. Where are we going?
I didn't like it.
I didn't run away. I left the flat.
Yes. Ceiling. Why did you run away?
I know you. I saw you through the floor, didn't I?
Yes, of course. Sorry.
It's my fucking life.
You know, smoking's bad for you.
I don't know. Hey, that's not a very nice thing to say.
Why are they all pigs at Information Retrieval?
Oh. But ... Look, I'm sorry I shouted at you.
I don't want to hear about your fucking dreams!
... This is amazing ... for me ... being here with you. I mean, in my dreams you ...
Don't litter my cab!
Us. Them. I don't know ... just get going.
Alright! Alright! Alright! I'm Information Retrieval Officer - DZ/015, and I'm arresting you for - your own good! Now start up and get moving before I hand you back to them!
Bloody hell! Do as I say!
Who are you?
What are you doing? For Christ's sake! Get moving!
Ow! That hurt!
How can I act naturally, when you've trying to break my arm?
Don't look back! Act naturally!
Who are you? Let go!
Mrs Buttle, are you alright?
It's you ... it's you ...
Are you alright?
Yes ... No ... I don't, know.
It's what you wanted isn't it?
I did it for you.
I never signed the form.
Yes. NO! You can't! You've only just turned it down!
I've go to accept that promotion to get behind this, haven't I?
All enquiries to Information Retrieval. Which is hopeless, of course. They never tell you anything. But come the time they want something from us ...
I know that.
All information on 3rd Level Suspects is classified.
You don't happen to know how I can get around an IRQ/3 do you?
What's the matter?
Can I forget it?
I delivered it.
Is it all right about Mrs Buttle's cheque?
Don't mention it. See you later.
You are good to me Sam.
Oh God! I think I've broken a bone. What a pathetic thing I am.
Here we are. Pink and blue receipts. All you've got to do is sign these and the back of the cheque.
Of course, of course. Leave it to me. How do I authorize a cheque?
Call the motor pool and authorise personal transport.
Here. What do I do next?
Drive out to Mrs Buttle, give her the cheque, tell her to sign her name on the back, cash it at the corner sweet shop.
You'd never get away with it. Besides, you can't do that to somebody's refund. It's Christmas. There is one more option.
Well, that's it! I may as well go and hang myself! This sort of thing couldn't have happened before the stupid seventh tier reorganization! That was Simmons doing! And he and Jeffries always sit together at lunch! The bastards! Ow! Perhaps we can lose it ... behind the filing cabinet ... or destroy it ... burn it ... eat it ...
Problem. She doesn't have a bank account.
There we go. Mrs. Veronica Buttle. What's the number on the cheque?
Next of kin!
Try next of kin.
Dead! Oh no! That's terrible! We'll never get rid of the damned thing! What are we going to do?
He is dead.
I've tried that! Population Census have got him down as dormanted, the Central Collective Storehouse computer has got him down as deleted, and the Information Retrieval have got him down as inoperative ... Security has him down as excised., Admin have him down as completed
Send it to somebody else. Send it to Buttle. It's his cheque.
We've got to get rid of it! There's been a balls-up somewhere, and when the music stops they'll jump on whoever's holding the cheque!
I've never seen a Ministry cheque before.
I mean, Buttle! It's been confusion from the word go! He's been wrongly charged for Electromemorytherapy and someone somewhere is trying to make us carry the can!
The refund for Tuttle!
What a BITCH!
It's your mother isn't it? Pulling strings again.
You've been promoted.
Would you really, Sam?
I've told you before. I'd turn it down.
But if they did promote you
What a relief! I don't know what I'd do if you ever got promoted.
Expediting has put in for electrical procedures in respect of Buttle, Archibald, shoe repair operative, but Security has invoiced Admin for Tuttle, Archibald, heating engineer
Isn't it? Whose is it?
It's not our mistake!
Oh my God, a mistake!
It's not the machine. There's a mismatch on the personnel code numbers... Ah there we go! That's a B58/732 when it should be a T47/215 ... Tuttle ... he should have 31.06, debited against his account for electrical procedures, not Buttle.
Perhaps the machine's on the blink! It keeps picking up old films. That can't he right, can it?
Sorry, a bit busy at the moment. You seem to have quite a lot to do yourself.
Lime, I need to use your computer
Gillian Layton - Suspect S/5173. Truck driver! All enquiries, reference officer 412/L - Room 5001. That's what I wanted to know. Thank you very much.
Hey - that's my desk!
Oh - yes. Look you're putting me off, standing there! Go back to your office and I'll give you a knock when I've finished.
You haven't switched it on.
Sod it, it's broken!
You must be joking - When there's a woman involved - there's no stopping me. Now, let me have that sheet.
What? Look, let me use the console for a few minutes.
This is your dream girl, is it?
I know her age and distinguishing marks. But I need an address or a place of work or something
A woman eh? I see.
Alright. There's someone I want to check out. A woman called Gillian Layton.
I'll tell you what .... You tell me what and I'll do it for. I'm a bit of a whizz on this thing.
You want to take my console into your office?
I'll bring it back in ten minutes.
Ah. Would you mind if I borrowed your computer console?
Ah, yes, you're the new boy from next door, ha ha! My name's Lime. Harvey Lime. Welcome to Expediting.
No, you can't have any more chairs! There's only one left in here now, and I need that to sit on! Oh ... er, sorry. Who are you?
There are some who go to Dr. Jaffe's clinic who never come back at all.
How long will she he away?
I won't be held responsible.
Well, she's my mother, not yours.
She didn't say anything about it to me.
My mother said it would be all right.
I'm sorry Alma, I didn't mean to sound so ...
Numero une, crevettes  la mayonaaise.
A most perceptive choice, Madam, if I may say so. Monsieur?
Oh, to hell with the diet, a number eight, please.
We're meeting Mrs Terrain.
{suddenly unctious) Oh, but of course ...
You remember Samuel, my son.
I'm sorry but ...
Hello, Spiro. Merry Christmas.
Not now ... please
Mother? ... What ... what's ... you've got to help me ...
Actually, I've decided ...
It seems you're the first person ever to turn down a promotion. He thinks you should see a doctor.
I want to talk to him.
Yes he is - he wants to talk to you.
Is Mr Helpmann here?
Of course. Isn't it wonderful? The bandages came of this afternoon. Come and join the fun. Everybody's here.
Mother? Is that you?
Don't be childish, Samuel. Of course you want something. You must have hopes, wishes, dreams.
I'm sorry. I don' t want dessert. I don't want promotion. I don't want anything.
Sam ... you haven't had dessert.
Actually, Alma, that's one of the little things I was dying to tell you ... Sam's been promoted to Information Retrieval.
By the way, I saw a wonderful idea for Christmas presents at the chemists. Gift tokens. Medical gift tokens.
This isn't rare!
What were we saying?
It's something for executives.
What is it?
I hope you like it. It's very exclusive.
You're not listening, mother.
Mr Helpmann was very close to your poor father. He was very close to me. Still is. He'll take you under his wing at Information Retrieval. You'll like it when you get there.
No you're not. Jack Lint is a lesson to you - he never had your brains but he's got the ambition. You haven't got the ambition but luckily you've got me. And Mr Helpmann. Mr Helpmann was very close -
I just wish you would stop interfering, mother! I don't want promotion. I'm happy where I am.
He hadn't done anything ... He was good ... What have you done with his body?
What have you done with his body?
Er ... I assure you Mrs Buttle, the Ministry is always very scrupulous about following up and eradicating error. If you have any complaints which you'd like to make, I'd be more than happy to send you the appropriate forms.
My husband's dead, isn't he?
Yes. Not my department ... I'm only records. It seems that Mr Buttle was overcharged by Information Retrieval. I don't think they usually make mistakes ... but, er ... I suppose we're all human.
It's a refund ... I'm afraid there was a mistake.
Shirley and I come here regularly. I love romantic lingerie.
Er, yes ...
My complication had a complication, but Dr Chapman says I'll soon be up and bouncing about like a young gazelle. Are you buying a Christmas present for your mother?
I think that'll hold it. Hello Shirley. Just helping someone tie up a Christmas present. How are you?
Ah ... hello, Mrs Terrain. SAM lets go of the parcel and pushes JILL away. She moves off.
I ... uh ...
Here we are! I'm going to leave you two lovebirds in peace.
I know, I know ...!
Actually, there's someone I want to meet ...
There was a slight complication. Dr. Chapman says it often happens with a delicate skin like mine. Nothing to worry about. He's promised me I'll have these bandages off in a ...
Whatever happened to you?
What? Now? It's my lunch hour.
Really, Sam - when are you going to do something about these terrorists?
Numero trois, steak. Monsieur, Mesdames, Bon appetit.
That's all right Ida ... it's just that he's such an artist. To him, cutting is so crude ... so primitive.
Numero deux, duck a l'orange.
It's too exciting. I've left Dr Jaffe and gone to Dr. Chapman.
Numero huit, braised veal in wine sauce.
Thank you, Spiro. Shirley, what are you going to have?
Between you and me, Madam, today the number two.
I can't make up my mind whether to have a number one or a number two. What do you recommend, Spiro?
What? Who is this?
Put the phone down and your hands up.
Hello. Mr Lowry?
Hello ... hello ...
Thank you for calling Cen -
Yes, but. I've got to have a heating engineer
Thank you for calling Central Services. I am sorry, due -
This is an emergency!
Thank you or calling Central Services. am sorry, due to temporary staff shortage, Central Services cannot take service calls centrally between 2300 and 0900 hours - have a nice day - this has not been a recording, incident-
Hello - Central Services - I'm at 579B Block l9, Northwestern Section D - that's exit 1 on Green Pastures Highway at the Orange Blossom Flyover - and I've got trouble with the air- conditioning
Thank you, Dawson.
I'm glad to see the Ministry's continuing its tradition of recruiting the brightest and best, sir.
And you can't tell me what the proper channels are, because that's classified information?
I'm afraid I can't, sir. You have to go through the proper channels.
Excuse me, Dawson, can you put me through to Mr Helpmann's office?
No you couldn't, sir. This is Information Retrieval. the lift's arrived, sir.
But I could be anybody.
No need, sir
My I.D. cards.
Er, don't you want to search me?
Thirtieth floor, sir. You're expected.
My name is Sam Lowry. I have to report to Mr Warren.
Madam ... CUT to WOMAN turning, half in flirtatious conversation. It is SAM's MOTHER, but miraculously another twenty years younger and ... a parody of SAM's Dream Girl.
what? ... Oh ...
I don't know which numero.
Monsieur. Quel numero.
A steak, please. Rare. Mother, I need to ...
Ah yes, the lady is waiting.
It's a 27B/6 of course.
What is it?
Thermostat's gone. And then some.
For God's sake, what's happened?
Why not? All you've got to do is blow yer nose and fix it, haven't you?
Hang on! Wait a minute! You can't just go and leave it like this!
Who fixed your ducts?
It's a 27B/6, what did you think it was?
What is it?
Sign here please.
What the - ? How did you - ?
We'll be back.
I'm sorry, but I'm a bit of a stickler for paper work. Where would we be if we didn't follow the correct procedures?
It's all right, Terry, it's all right, everything's all right.
But we can get one.
Not ... as such ...
Have you got one or haven't you?
Now look what you've done to him.
I mean it fixed itself.
No, not at all. I mean, it's all right. It's fixed.
On the house. You did me a favor. Check the corridor.
Thank you very much. How much will it...?
Time to go.
What do they want you or?
My friends call me Harry. Information Retrieval, eh? Interesting!
Listen .. um ... I don't want to get involved in any of this. But I work at the Ministry of Information, and I happen to know that Information Retrieval have been looking for an Archibald Tuttle, Heating Engineer. You wouldn't by any chance be -
No. Wait here.
Are you expecting anyone?
No. But I can bypass it with one of these
Can you fix it?
Why? I came into this game for adventure - go anywhere, travel light, get in, get out, wherever there's trouble, a man alone. Now they've got the whole country sectioned of and you can't move without a form. I'm the last of a breed. Ah ha! Found it! There's your problem.
Well I suppose one has to expect a certain amount
The paperwork, couldn't stand the paperwork. Over to the left please, if you don't mind sir. Hold it there. Yes, there's more bits of paper in Central Services than bits of pipe - read this, fill in that, hand in the other - listen, this old system of yours could be on fire and I couldn't even turn on the kitchen tap without filling in a 27B/6.... Bloody paperwork.
Couldn't stand the pa - ah - we're getting warm -
Sorry. wouldn't it be easier just to work for Central Services?
... but, with all the new rules and regulations ... unncgh, c'mon, c'mon ... they can't get decent staff any more ... so ... they tend to turn a blind eye ... as long as I'm careful. ... Mind you, if ever they could prove I'd been working on their equipment ... well, that's a different matter ... up a bit with the torch, sir.
Well, yes ... and no. Officially, only Central Service operatives are supposed to touch this stuff ... Could you hold these.
Are you saying this is illegal?
A little precaution, sir. I've had traps set for me before now. There are people in Central Services who'd love to get their hands on Harry Tuttle.
They're a bit overworked these days. Luckily I intercepted your call.
But ... I called Central Services.
Tuttle! Are you from Central Services?
Harry Tuttle. Heating engineer. At your service.
What is this? Who the hell are you?
Nice and easy now. Keep your hands where I can see them.
Go on, get outta here, Pierce, before I give you a big hug. I love this guy.
What if there is no tomorrow?
I got some forms here to fill out about that accident when you get the time. I'll fire you tomorrow. I promise.
You're late, Pierce. I know, but I can't fire you. I've got nobody to work sixteen XRay with Walls.
I'm sorry, Pierce. You're going out with Marcus. Duty calls. The City needs you.
I don't think a week's gonna do it.
I'll fire you tomorrow. Hell, better than that, I'll forward you some sick time. A week, two weeks off-- how about that?
You swore you'd fire me if I came in late again.
I feel for you, but we got an emergency here. It's a weekend of full moons. Everyone's called in sick. Larry, Veeber, Stanley too. We need bodies out there. I had to put Marcus on Twelve Young. You know he's not supposed to work two nights in a row.
You know they won't do it. It's up to you. You gotta be strong.
Nobody tells me to fire anyone. I told them: shove it up the big one. Sorry. I said, you want to fire him, come over and do it yourself.
I'm sorry Captain. Don't take it too hard.
I've never fired anyone in my life.
It's okay. I'll just get my things out of the locker.
You're killing me, you know that? You got no sick time according to Command. I've been told to terminate.
I'm sick. That's what I've been telling you.
What am I going to to do with this guy? Pierce, I was just on the phone with Borough Command. Out of twelve shifts this month, you've been late for nine, sick four and that includes the shift where you came late and went home early.
It's a miracle.
You can trust me on this one.
She's having a baby. Twins.
Is she dying?
Thanks for the translation. What's your name? Nombre?
She say she in great pain.
Can you walk? Puedes caminar?
Are you pregnant? Estas embarazada?
No, no, that's impossible.
No English. She has terrible pain in her belly.
We are virgins.
Never. No cigarettes, no drugs, no booze.
In that time, you ever have sex?
Two years. Ever since we left island.
You know each other a long time?
Stressed? He's psycho.
Be cool, man. You're having a paradoxical reaction. It can happen. Didn't I tell you this guy was stressed out?
He flipped out.
Frank, take it easy. what happened?
He's not a cop, he's a medic. I'm CY Coates.
He looks like a cop.
It's okay, Kanita. Come on in.
Hey Cy, guess who's here?
Boy can't shoot for shit, either. Goddamn that's hot.
That's too bad. Get some money, a nice looking girl on your arm, and everyone wants to take a piece. Some kid I wouldn't let wash my Mercedes is in my house, shooting at me. Damn, I thought I could make it onto the balcony like Tiger. He's fat, that's why, falls faster. I'm trying to watch my weight, and look what happens. Am I shot, Frank?
What about Kanita?
I was tired. I needed a coffee.
I've been thinking about things. Meditating on my financial future. You guys gave me plenty of time to meditate on the future. Whatja do, stop for Chinese on the way over? There's plenty of food in my place.
You're going to live.
So, Frank, am I going to live?
I can't hold up my head anymore.
They're gonna torch the fence. You're gonna feel the metal getting warm, maybe very warm.
Does that hurt?
Just take it easy.
I guess I'll be going.
That's the stuff. I call it the Red Lion. Very king-of-the-jungle.
Is this what you gave Mary?
Sleep is all stress reduction. Here. You take one of these, sleep two hours, that's all you need. Why do you think I'm telling you this, Frank--for my health? You ought to look at yourself in the mirror, man. Kanita, get him a glass of water.
I should be going. I just quit.
Red Death? Tell me something, Frank--does killing your clients make good business sense to you? The kids selling that shit have no sense. They'll be taken care of, don't worry about that.
Did you give Mary something called Red Death?
That shit is poison, Frank. We don't drink alcohol here. What you need is one of these.
Got a beer?
I'm always interested in people in stressful occupations and being a paramedic is about as stressful as I can imagine. Here, sit down. What's it like? Tell me some war stories.
Mary, we really have to go.
She wanted something to help her sleep.
I better just go in and see her.
I know, but she told me to tell you she wants to crash here a few hours. Terrible about her father, isn't it?
She asked me to pick her up.
Sleeping in the back.
Where is she?
Mary said you might be coming.
Male diff breather, approximately 30, Houston and A.
Let's do it! It's Marcus, Love, only for you.
You're going to three-four Avenue C, 17 year-old female cardiac arrest, no further information.
Don't worry, hon. Young is here and he's gonna help out--just remember, you owe me.
I can't wait all night, Young. I'm holding a priority and if you don't answer I'm going to knock you out of service.
She said to me, I love the way you talk on the radio.
Twelve Young, answer the radio. I have a call for you.
Ten-four, hon. This is for you.
I'm not your baby, Young, I'm not your mother either. You're going to a cardiac arrest, Avenue C and Ninth, northeast corner. It's a club. Take the side entrance.
I usually don't do calls before coffee. But I think it might do you some good. Twelve Young is here and I'm gonna take care of you, baby. Don't you worry about a thing, yahear, cause Marcus is alive and on arrival.
Twelve Young, I don't have time for your games. Now answer me or do I have to come out there myself?
What'd you mean IB Bangin? What kind of name is IB Bangin?
What's his name?
All right, all right, he's been snorting that Red Death stuff. Been going for four days.
He's dead and there's nothing we can do. Come on, Frank, that's it.
No way, man.
No. He's dead.
He's going to be all right, right?
Okay, what happened?
The pitch, high heater. Bucky knows what's coming. He steps in, smash, over the green monster.
Oh man, Bucky.
What the hell. The next year, tiebreaker for the division, in Boston, Yanks down two to nothing, Bucky Dent steps to the plate.
Sure, sure, give go.
No, I'd better not.
Here, you try.
Strawberry ain't shit. Drug pussy. Me. I swing like Reggie. Mr. October. Number three, game six, World Series.
That's a hell of a swing you got there, Noel. I'm thinking Strawberry in his prime.
Shut up. You're going to die and he's not. Got it.
What did you say?
You're not going to die.
Well, you have your choice: pills, injection, gas.
Oh man, do you mean that? Thank you man, thank you. How?
Noel, you didn't let me finish. We have rules against killing people on the street. Looks bad, but there's a special room at the hospital for terminating. A nice quiet room with a big bed.
No, no medicine!
You came out of the hospital. You were tied down and hallucinating. You got some bad chemicals in your head, Noel. There's some medicine at the hospital that will fix that.
See, I can't do it. I came out of the desert.
I can't. I have to stay with my patient.
Excuse me. You are a very kind man. I can see that. A man like you could not refuse a poor sick dying helpless man a small cup of water.
Come on up.
Who is it?
There's no time.
This is not a good time.
No, the city doesn't discriminate. It gets everybody.
No, we just ate. I only remember how tough my father was. Now I know he had to be like that, to make us tough. This city'll kill you if you aren't strong enough.
Can I bring you something back to eat--a falafal, some pizza?
I wish these people would leave already. I can't listen to another story. Did you see him? That doctor says the brain is coming around. They're waiting for the heart to stabilize. I don't know who to believe. He says they still have to keep him tied up.
No problem. Thanks for letting me crash. It was the best sleep I've had in months. I used some of your soap.
OK, last night I was weak. it won't happen again. And all that shit I said--it was just because I was stoned. Forget it.
It'll be a while before he's up and running again.
Too bad. He called me up today, can you believe that? I don't know how he got my number. He asks me do I want to come over and see him, I tell him I'd rather go to a leper colony. He says there's a new gang that wants to kill him, take over the business. I told him I hope he's right. That they kill him. That's what I told him.
He'll be all right.
I heard CY Coates was brought in. He looked pretty bad.
Or maybe you wanna fuck me? Everyone else has.
I need to sit down a minute.
What is it? You want to help me, you feel sorry for me? Keep it to yourself.
Because you can barely walk.
You and CY have a nice talk? He tell you about Sunrise Enterprises, helping people? Well, I've seen him hurt people. Why are you following me?
Mary. Mary, we've got to get going.
Don't be a cop. If you have any doubts about this, it's my fault.
We can still go back. I'll walk you home. You sleep a couple of hours, watch some TV, take a bath.
I just have to relax a little. Not feel so guilty all the time.
Promise you won't go inside.
You asked me not to come.
I shouldn't have asked you to come.
No, I'll be fine. I'm just visiting a sick friend.
Nothing's going to happen. I'll come with you.
If I'm not back in fifteen minutes, hit the buzzer. That way she'll let me go.
Maybe I should come up with you.
I'm only asking because it's a dangerous building. There's been some robberies, a woman was raped not long ago. This woman I'm seeing, she'll want to talk to me all day, but if I can point to you out the window and say you're waiting, I can be out quick. if anything happens, I'll be in apartment 16M.
Don't say that. I wanted to cut my father loose too. They told me he almost died and five minutes later they say he's better and I go in. It's killing me seeing him fighting like that. Look, since you're here, maybe you could do me a favor. I need you to wait for me outside this building, okay? I have to visit a friend who's sick.
Don't seem so bad to me.
I'm all right. I just can't stand to see people tied up. I'm in the waiting room for hours, listening to Noel screaming. The only reason he's screaming is 'cause he's tied up.
Excuse me. You seemed like you were in trouble.
I better go check on my father. Thanks for the pizza. I owe you one. Maybe when he gets better, you know, when we're done with all this.
Mostly. It must be my face. My mother always said I looked like a priest.
Maybe not. I was a different person then. Does everybody you meet spill their problems on you like this?
I think I'd remember that.
You must get a lot of overdoses. I bet you picked me up a couple of times.
You learn to sort of block it out, you know, like cops fence off a crime scene. But then something good will happen and everything will just glow.
Wow, you musta seen some things, huh? What's the worst thing you ever seen?
How long you been doing this?
It's been bad lately, but it's always bad.
Ah, no. I was. It's hard to explain. She had a hard time adjusting to, well, maybe it was my fault too.
They're fine. My old man was a bus driver, mom a nurse--I was sort of born to it, I guess.
Like everybody else--except us. Always standing on the sidewalk waving goodbye to moving trucks. Your parents ... ?
We moved out after that. Upstate.
On yeah? I went to Holy Name. Where'd you go to high school?
I grew up on Elizabeth. I went to Blessed Sacrament.
Yeah, or Saint Anthony. You from the neighborhood?
You remember that pizza place, Joe's on Tenth Street maybe fifteen years ago? When you ordered a pie it came with a little plastic madonna in the middle?
Not as good as Nino's.
It's best not to ... It's good pizza, huh?
My father was a great man, you know. There was nobody he wouldn't help. You know that crazy guy Noel who I gave water to last night? He lived in our house for almost a year. A total stranger he'd do anything for, his own family though ...
Look, I'm sorry, but it's important to me. I mean, a week ago I was wishing he was dead. And now I want hear his voice again, just once more-- you know what I mean?
He's better, though, right?
That's how it's done. You have to keep the body going until the brain and heart recover enough to go on their own.
You sure? I know my father would hate to be tied down. He wouldn't even go to the dentist.
He wants to pull that tube out. It's pretty painful--that's why they keep him sedated--but it's a good sign.
Be tough to get a taxi here. We can give you a ride if you like.
You can't kill my father that easy. He'll fight forever. Like with me: hasn't talked to me in three years. But it's okay. Sometimes you have to put things behind you.
I was just going to get some food. Pizza. Maybe we could.
How is she?
I was going nuts in that waiting room so I came back to check on my mom.
I think it looks good.
I know. It's awful, isn't it? Night of the Living Cheerleaders.
You look so different.
I knew. I sensed it when I heard your voice.
Well, the doctor says he's showing some movement. It's still early, it might mean nothing, but I thought you'd want to know.
He's better, isn't he?
I'll be right down.
Hello, I'm Frank Pierce, from the ambulance last night. I brought your father into the hospital and I just learned some news.
I'd take her, but then who would stay here?
She should go home.
My father's in a coma, now my mother's going crazy. It's like she's in a trance.
Thing is, I'm supposed to be the fuckup. The one on the stretcher in there--that's supposed to be me. With my parents crying out here. I got a lot of guilt, you know what I mean?
He's working a double shift.
It's crazy in there. What's wrong with that doctor? He keeps mumbling, poking himself in the eye when he talks to me.
Did you see my father?
Our Lady of Misery.
I think this place stinks.
He's dead, huh?
That boy you brought in, he was shot, wasn't he?
That's my brother's problem. He's passed out inside.
It's okay. They're prescription. Works better with a little whiskey.
You shouldn't smoke.
That's what I told her. If she could just see him a second, then I could take her home.
Go home. Take her home. Get some rest. Not going to find anything out now.
Right now, I'm more worried about my mother than anything. They won't let her see my father.
Even when you say the things, there's always more things.
I'm not so sure. My father and I haven't spoken in three years. When my brother called to say my father was having a heart attack, that he'd locked himself in the bathroom, all the way going over I was thinking how I was gonna tell him what a bastard he was. Then when I got up the stairs and we moved him onto the bed, I thought of all these other things I wanted to say.
At least he's got people around him.
I mean if he was dead, I could handle that.
You never know.
It's the waiting that's killing me, not knowing, you know? It's really hard on my mother. The doctor doesn't think my father'll make it. He says he was dead too long, after six minutes the brain starts to die and once that goes, close the door.
The first is always the best.
It's my first cigarette in over a year.
It's not so rare. He grew up on our street. He's had a rough life and he's a little crazy from it, but that's no excuse for not giving someone a lousy cup of water.
I wouldn't do that. The doctor seems to think he's suffering from some rare disorder.
I guess there's always a chance.
Is there any chance?
We'd better go outside. Quickly.
I know him. That's Noel.
He's very very sick.
His heart's beating.
Is he going to be alright?
John, play the Sinatra.
Music. I think it helps if you play something he liked.
Do you have any music?
You can't leave me now.
I quit! I'm through!
Where you going?
Greatest job in the world.
Here's to the greatest job in the world.
I'll drink to that.
Please, a little decorum if you will. What I was going to say is, is that holding that baby in my arms, I felt like I was twenty-one again. A call like that makes me think of going back to three nights a week, not two, start running again, cut down on the drinking.
I hate vodka.
I don't want to hear about it, okay? That's three jobs for the night. It's over. Three jobs and time for a drink. Six am, the cocktail hour. Pass the bottle; I know you're holding.
We just saved a little baby boy. Think of it that way.
You know what I'm talking about. It's all over your face. That I-just- saved-a-little-baby-boy look.
Don't give me that look.
That's too many.
What's that, Frank?
It's coming. Hold her down.
Look at that. A fat junkie. That's a first.
I need a drink, that's all.
No, you didn't, Frank, thank you. But there's still a couple hours left on the shift.
She wasn't looking at you, man, she was looking at me.
We're all whores, Frank. You know what I'm talking about, the way she looked at me.
She's no whore, Marcus.
Nice though, pulling back her hood as we drive by. There's a mystery to it, then she shows you.
You don't know the first thing about rule number three, cannot begin to understand the complexities of that rule. Come on, let's go look at some hookers. The Kit Kat will be letting out. Don't ever call a junkie whore a crackhead. They get real mad.
What about rule number three: Don't get involved with dispatchers named Love.
Rule number one: Don't get involved with patients. Rule number two: Don't get involved with patient's daughters. You understand?
Went over to Sal's got this. There must be some place in Hell for a guy who sells a dollar-fifty a slice. I call you if anything comes up.
God help us, he's hungry too.
I'm hungry too. We gotta get some food after this.
Oh, Frank, you've got it bad, so much worse than I thought.
She's the daughter of a cardiac arrest I brought in last night. I told her we'd give her a ride back to Misery. Her father's showing signs of improving.
Make a left here. I want to stop.
No, you never listened. I was going, man, if someone on high hadn't pulled me in. I had put all I had into saving this dumbass lowlife suicidal that when he went down, there was a part of me that wanted to go with him.
Where the guy jumped and you almost fell. No, you never told me that story.
I ever tell you about the time years ago I was on this ledge uptown, trying to talk this psycho inside?
He's dead unless you folks want to stop bullshitting me and tell it straight. Then, Lord willing, we'll try to bring him back.
He's not dead. It's a heroin overdose. Break out the Narcon.
She loves me the way no woman ever has.
Is it true that you and Love went on a blind date? She hit you with a bottle?
She only works when I'm on. I make her wait and it drives her crazy.
It can always get worse. You can't change what's out there, only where you're coming from. You got to let the Lord take over, in here.
I think the worst is over.
You ever notice people who see shit always, are crazy?
Nobody gets fired. Look at me. Only thing they might do is transfer you to the Bronx. You look like you aged ten years since I rode with you last.
The captain almost fired me tonight. I'm on my way out. Anytime now.
My Lord mother man, you look like hell. What were you drinking?
Upstairs. 212. Had to shock him twice more.
Jesus Christ. Nurse Crupp! Anybody else hurt?
Last show of the night.
A medical miracle.
That's good, Frank. No, but they might surgically implant one, about the size of my thumb. It goes near the shoulder here, with two electrodes connected to the heart. It sends a shock whenever it senses a drop in blood flow. Amazing, isn't it?
What do you do, just have someone follow him around with a defribilator?
Fourteen. We finally got him a room upstairs. Should be up there in a couple of hours.
How many times have you shocked him tonight?
You can't believe how much he's improved.
Can't tell. It was a breech, twins. The other one seems okay, though. Marcus is taking him and the mother to Maternity.
Oh Jesus, put her on the monitor. Where's the pediatric code cart? Odette give me that tube. All right, flatline--let's do CPR. step back, Frank. How many months?
I wanted to bring them in, to see if he'd respond to voices, but they weren't in the waiting room. The guy's daughter was in my face all last night and when I finally have something positive to tell her, she's gone.
The family know?
Who knows? It's all lower-brain-stem- activity. The heart refuses to stabilize--he's coded eleven times since he got here. This guy's a fighter. Every time the Valium wears off he starts yanking those restraints.
What do you think?
Burke. You won't believe it. He's showing cognitive signs. He started with spontaneous respiration, now he's fighting to pull out the tube. Had to sedate him. He's in a CAT scan. I'm giving him every test I can: thromboytics, steroids, nitrodrips, heparin.
That guy I brought in yesterday, post-cardiac arrest. He's gone.
No, that's Noel. Used to be a regular off and on, hasn't been in in a while. He seized and almost coded--I gave him a hypertonic solution. He drank so much the kidneys were taking out salt. One for the textbooks.
He one of them?
I hate pronouncing people dead over the phone. Better, huh? They're fixed and dilated. He's plant food.
He got better.
Would you like to come in?
You have to keep the body going until the brain and heart recover enough to go on their own.
He was tough. You did all you could.
He coded. They shocked him one too many times. I'm sorry.
How can that be? He was getting better.
He's dead, Rose. Your father passed.
We're gonna save you, Noel. You're gonna be all right. Do it, Tom! I'll call for fucking backup, I swear!
Get the kit! We're gonna tube him!
You learn that in the army?
Believe me, it always works. The simpler, the better.
If he sees me, he'll run, so I'll get out here. You start talking to him about baseball or something while I sneak around behind and get down and you push him. When he falls we get him.
Okay, whatta I do?
Look at that. Tell me that's a crazy person. Every move is calculated. He knows exactly what he's doing. This is the guy. I've been after him for weeks. He's quick, runs like a rat, tough for one person, but with two of us--
Well, why don't they put him away? Prisons don't want him. I took him to the hospital yesterday and here he is again.
He's crazy. He can't help it.
This guy's been terrorizing the neighborhood for weeks, ever since he got outta jail, wreaking general havoc, contributing to the bad name of the place. The term "menace to society" was made up for him.
Let me think.
What's the reason? Give me a reason, Tom.
You need a reason, Frank. You don't just go around breaking people's windows. That's anarchy.
Destruction, distraction. I feel the need.
I don't know--let's break some windows.
What do you want to break?
Let's break something, Tom. Let's bust something, bomb something.
That's your job. Just keep driving, keep moving. No stopping. We're sharks. We stop too long, we die.
Let's get in a fight, then.
You want some bum in the bus terminal? We'll wait for a real call.
C'mon, Tom, pick up a job.
C'mon, look at your screen. Give up some blood!
As long as we keep moving. No standing still.
Get ready, Frank. Missed a drug shooting while you were dicking around in there. There's gonna be trauma tonight!
I haven't had a chance to see him yet. I'm going to take care of sleeping beauty.
How's he doing?
I don't think the fire people can touch him out there.
Well, he's the steakhead of the night, then.
Get this, Frank--we got two patients. Number one, the scarecrow outside. Number two misses the railing but breaks both legs on the balcony, then throws himself through a glass window, heads to the bedroom, where he's now passed out.
Better bring it all.
Whadda we bring?
That's all right, we're not meant to do Oh tonight. Something is going to happen. I can feel it.
It's early for him.
I never felt better in my life.
I've taken that into consideration.
The brakes are shot.
I feel the need, the need for speed. I'm driving out of myself.
C'mon, Tom. The city's burning.
Where you going?
Tom, where are the Band-aids? This is an ambulance, isn't it?
Don't worry, kid. Tom'll take care of you. Put your head out the window, get some of that summer air. Listen to the music. El Toro de Oro. Andale. Pronto.
The cure's not working, Tom. Maybe we should go back to the hospital.
Ten-four. El Toro de Oro. Blast off.
Our mission is coffee, Tom. A shot of the bull, Puerto Rican espresso.
Look up, Frank. Full moon. The blood's gonna run tonight. I can feel it. Our mission: to save lives.
Great to be drunk. Sobriety's killing me.
Yeah. Great, isn't it?
These are hard times, Tom.
Come on, Frank. There's blood spilling in the streets.
I'm sick, Tom. I need a cure. Vitamin B cocktail, followed by an amp of glucose and a drop of adrenaline. Not as good as beer, but all I got.
No prisoners. Don't worry, Frank, just a little psychological first aid.
It's not worth it, Tom. He's surrendering.
One more time!
You're in the stomach! Let me try.
You're in the stomach!
Used to be my partner.
Jesus, Tom Walls, that crazy motherfucker.
You really think so?
Sure, I'm taking the captain's exam next year. After the kids are in school, Louise can go back to the post office and, I thought, what the hell, I'll start my own medic service. Out on the Island the volunteers are becoming salaried municipal. It's just a matter of time and who you know. Someday it's going to be Chief Larry calling the shots.
Tell me, you ever think of doing anything else?
Yeah, you're right.
You take things too seriously. Look at us, we're cruising around, talking, taking some quiet time, getting paid for it. We've got a good job here.
Take me back, put me to bed; I surrender. We've done enough damage tonight.
You have no sick time, Frank. No time of any kind. Everyone knows that.
I'm not feeling very well, Larry. I say we go back to the hospital and call it a night.
Relax, will you.
Larry, swing over on Eighth. We're gonna hafta run one of these calls.
Well why didn't you say so?
Someone's gonna die someday causa that bum, going to have a cardiac and the only medics will be taking care of Mr. Oh.
They'll just keep calling.
It's not our job to taxi drunks around.
Relax, it's a street job, easy except for the smell. We'll just throw him in back and zip over to Mercy--no blood, no dying, that's how I look at it. He's just a drunk.
It's Mr. Oh. I'm not answering it.
You're burned out.
Don't push it, Larry.
That's what we're here for. Come on, Frank.
You wanted it turned off. There's no such thing as a good fire. People get burned up. They can't breathe.
You know what. The radio.
Turn it off.
Coffee and whiskey, lucky you ain't dead with that diet. Wait, I've got it. Half fried chicken with fries. Let's go, hurry up. Come on.
I eat. I just haven't had coffee yet.
Oh yeah, you don't eat food.
I'm not hungry.
I'm so stupid. I had beef lo mein last night. I can't eat the same thing two nights in a row. It's almost two o'clock, what the hell am I gonna do? What you getting?
Oh no!--I just remembered.
Turn here. You missed it. The Chink is on 3rd.
I think the moment that food hits your mouth we'll get a job.
The Chinese close in five minutes. Beef lo mein. It's been on my mind since I woke. Whatjathink?
No we can't. He's got a pulse.
Ten-four. Don't go. Not this time.
Yes, Zebra. You'll be driving to the man who needs no introduction, chronic caller of the year three straight and shooting for number four. The duke of drunk, the king of stink, our most frequent flier, Mr. Oh.
Look, Frank, when I say don't answer it, that means answer it. You can do that for me at least. Three Zebra.
Thirteen Zebra. One-Three Zebra. You're going out of service in two seconds.
Four times this week I've had him. Aren't there any other units out there? Don't answer the radio. They'll give it to someone else.
Answer the radio Zebra. You know it's that time.
No! It's three o'clock. That can only mean one thing.
Zebra, are you there? I'm holding an unconscious at First and St. Marks.
You see, he's giving it to us anyway.
One-three Zebra. Zebra three, I need you.
If you ever get restless in Portland, let me know.
Congratulations on history's longest winning streak.
It's nice to see you.
Are you any closer to a decision?
He excels at gratitude.
I'll see you back at the hotel.
I thought she'd be here. I'll go with you.
I'm just bringing him over to give Jane a look at him --
Well, this kid couldn't possibly belong to anyone else. What's your name?
No, I liked the way it made me sound. Okay. Be good. So long.
You know what I...
I'm going to miss you -- you're a prick in a great way...
This story they won't cover. And if the network doesn't cover it -- it must not be important so why worry.
No. I don't know how much fun it will be when Martin Klein and Ernie have to drop off their credentials with the security guard.
Yes. You're not going to stick around for the farewell party?
Can I ask you something? You only had one crew on the date rape piece, right?
Hold it down, okay?
It is. Yes -- that's where they had Rorish, for God's sake, before they made him anchor. I can't stand it -- they're grooming you for it all and you don't even know it.
I don't think so.
London. That's a promotion!
Yes. And I'm sorry that they're sending you down for a while, but you'll make it back...Where they sending you?
You packing up tonight?
Why? What did they do to you?
Impossible. There's no system that wouldn't value one of us.
They booted me out of Washington.
What did they do with you?
I'll put her on.
No. Don't worry about it.
Yeah -- well, I'm sorry I'm tying up Jane, I didn't realize you two would be going this late. Sorry.
Everybody has one like that. I thought it was great when you started to laugh at the end.
The pointers were great. I'll study the tape.
You were smokin' toward the end there.
And the left side of your face is the good one. Go again. And try to punch one word or phrase in every sentence -- punch one idea a story. Punch -- come on --
Oh, God, no!
Don't let your eyes go from the beginning of the sentence to the end like that. You don't want to look shifty, do you?
I'll find some copy. Be right back.
It's not loaded.
No. That's not going to tell us anything. Let's get this prompter going.
Just don't physically... Fantastic tip -- fantastic.
Sit on it! <u>Now</u> look.
I don't like being handled.
Your coat jacket is rising up in back.
It just might not work for me because of our different approaches.
We sure do. I don't mean it as a knock either. Go ahead. I'll just say what I think and you can disregard it if you want.
This is uncomfortable for me -- because, well, I don't mean it as a knock, but we approach this differently.
Nothing. I think you really blew the lid off nookie.
What's wrong with it?
I'm in a pissy mood. I'm sorry.
I'm starting to... We may do the capitols of the states.
You're feeling good, aren't you?
There are only ten.
Yes, Aaron. I know the names of the Cabinet.
Don't name them. Just tell me if you know.
We're conversing...Oh my, the names of the entire Cabinet has slipped my mind. What are they?
Okay, let's drop it. I didn't mean I'd take a test for you -- I mean if that came up in conversation I'd...
Can you name all the members of the Cabinet?
Never to pretend to know more than I did.
And the rule was...
I made one rule for myself when this started and I realized I was going to take a lot from you people because of being from sports...
Okay. Pretty petty party, isn't it, pal?
Shut up a second...
You have the job you have...
I'm not buying into any of that. I have a load to learn. I'm not going to act as if...
You can't talk about feeling intimidated when you're on top of the world. It's unseemly.
Oh, stop it.
You know the other day I really wanted your reaction to how we did with the Libyan report -- I was going to ask but I guess I feel a little intimidated with you.
Keep it to yourself.
Great. Network news, Washington... I love it. What do you do when your real life exceeds your dreams?
How <u>you</u> doing?
You've made my dreams silly.
What did I do to you?
Why don't you lead? I'll just follow the flurry you cause.
You want to go out there -- get out of this for a second?
Same old stuff. I'm watching a man who won three Overseas Press Awards pitch an hors d'oeuvre idea.
Hi, Aaron...What's doing?
...outlaw nation but strangely those who have interviewed Gaddafi find him, in a phrase we like to use in this country, very 'presidential'.
You write this?
One source referred to it as a five billion dollar metal sculpture to ugly to look at and too big to bury.
Okay if I watch you tape that interview downstairs?
You're almost there, you can do it -- can do -- can do.
Shit, shit, shit...
Stop the tape, okay. Forget it, Ellen. Let's call security and get him out.
Which would you prefer?
I don't like the word gay.
You're saying the fact that you're gay had something directly to do with your promotions?
Office Bimbo. No, I'm sorry.
Eventually rising to...
I was there two years and was promoted on merit nine times.
You worked at one time as Foreign Service Trainee in the State Department.
I might as well ask you the questions on tape. Is that all right?
That's your full name?
It's Mr. Buddy Felton?
Well -- my wife got this new job...
I like it! So, doll, what about you lately?
Well, we met about three months ago. He works at the surgeon general office. He loves boating. So, he's been getting me into water skiing.
So who's the guy?
I'm going to take it.
I think so...They've been talking to me about being Tom's Managing Editor.
I hope so... No. I'm not really mad. I'll miss you, we'll talk, we'll always be friends...we'll get hot for each other every few years at dinner and never act on it, okay?
You won't be able to stay mad at me, right?
I'll be walking with my wife and two children -- we'll bump into you on the street, my youngest son will say something and I'll tell him... ...it's not nice to make fun of single, fat ladies.
Okay, that's very easy. Five, six years from now I'll be in town to collect an award representing the surge in foreign coverage by local stations.
You are now required to sit here with me. Come on...be smart for a second -- what do you think will happen to us?
Maybe the best part of your life is over and you don't want to get up and start the bad part.
I just want to sit here longer, I mean the feeling is powerful -- why's that?
You're just trying to say all great stuff so I'll feel even worse that you're not around.
Ernie told this story. How he used to write obits and when the people in town called him up with death notices, he cried. He was till that way when they promoted him out of obits. He says you're lucky if you can get out while you could still cry. I should have quit this place three years ago.
Tell me the God's honest truth -- are you leaving because of me? Because if you are...
Stop. Ernie thought I was good too -- he couldn't help. My agent has a hot prospect -- the number two station in Portland. The general manager says he wants to be every bit as good as the networks. Personally, I think he should aim higher.
Why not try it for a few weeks?
I just found out. You didn't say anything to me? You just resign? Will you meet me now? -- No, now! I'm going away tomorrow. Please.
Bastard, sneak, quitter.
Hi. Will I ever sing again?
Don't say anything about anything.
Sit down, stop.
I've got to not say that aloud; it takes too much out of me.
Yes, yes. I know. Right. And if it had gone well for me tonight, maybe I'd be keeping quiet about all this...I grant you everything but give me this...he does personify everything you've been fighting against...And I'm in love with you. How do you like that? -- I buried the lead.
You were quick enough to get Tom's help when...
Because we have the kind of relationship where if I were the Devil, you'd be the only one I told.
No. You know that I'm not.
I think you're the Devil.
What do you think the Devil is going to look like if he's around? Nobody is going to be taken in if he has a long, red, pointy tail. No. I'm semi-serious here. He will look attractive and he will be nice and helpful and he will get a job where he influences a great God-fearing nation and he will never do an evil thing...he will just bit by little bit lower standards where they are important. Just coax along flash over substance... Just a tiny bit. And he will talk about all of us really being salesmen. And he'll get all the great women.
This isn't friendship.
I know you care about him. I've never seen you like this about anyone, so please don't take it wrong when I tell you that I believe that Tom, while a very nice guy, is the Devil.
Yeah -- being a basket case.
You can't end up with Tom because it goes totally against everything you're about.
Yes, I guess. Yes.
Aaach...Jane... Let's take the part that has nothing to do with me. Let's let me be your most trusted friend, the one that gets to say awful things to you. You know?
Let me think a second. It's tough.
Yeah. Well...I think it is important for you too. Sit down.
This is important to me.
I don't know. I may be in love with him.
Call him -- I mean it can wait, right?
I told what's his name -- Tom -- that I'd meet him.
I have to be somewhere.
I don't know. At a certain point it was so off the chart bad -- it got funny. My central nervous system was telling me something. Jane -- sweat running down my face -- makeup falling into my eyes -- people turning this fusillade of blow dryers on me -- all so I could read introductions to other people who were covering stories which is what I like to do anyway. And I'm chipper because you finally showed up. I thought I'd cook for us. Tequila and eggs sound good?
If all that happened, how come you're so chipper?
No, nice ones worried that I was having a heart attack.
There were complaining phone calls because you were sweating?
I'm not kidding.
Stop kidding. I want to know what happened.
People phoned in.
What do you mean, flop sweat? -- you're making too much out of it...I'll bet you were the only one aware of it...
It was great...writing my little first rate copy, sitting on my jacket, punching my one thought. But I had this historic attack of flop sweat so they'll never let me another again. Oh, I lost one of your shoulder pads -- how was your evening anyway?
Aaron, will you tell me?
I lost six pounds...
Then what was good about it?
Do others feel that you did well?
Do you feel good about it?
Define your terms.
Did it really go well?
Then it went well.
You didn't see it or speak to anybody?
How'd it go?
Thanks, Jane. Have a good time tonight.
Okay, great -- good luck.
<u>If</u>...if not, I'll have the tape...I'll wait for you at my apartment.
I'm not sure I'll be able to...I...
Me too...Hey...if it gets dull a little before 11:00, drop by the studio.
Well, the line of the jacket -- No really....just very nice...just right. I wish I could be there.
As good as humanly possible.
Because this is important -- so don't just be polite. I'd really like to look...what's the word I'm looking for?...
It's not a date. It's co-workers going to a professional conclave.
Could you at least pretend that this is an awkward situation for you -- me showing up while you're getting ready for a date.
I read about it -- that's how you can make sure you don't put on too much perfume...
Yes...I was thinking that way too... Which tie?
Did you bring your grey suit?
I didn't know you were going with him.
Tom...why don't I meet you there? I've got some last minute stuff I've got to take care of...Hey, how did you resolve your dilemma -- did you rent the tux or buy it...I knew it. How much? Wow...Okay...See you there...
They're not that dumb, after all.
Aaah -- -- ello. You sure they said the management meeting? They want me to be at the management meeting.
A long time. I was restless. Will you crack my neck?
Jesus, Jane. How long have you been here?
Absolutely...You go have a good time... You have some place to go?
You know you've had a strange day... I'd sleep on all these things you've been thinking.
Which means I'm at their mercy and who wants that?...I'm not going to tell you where this thought led me... Anyway, well, why not tell you? -- it's a happy thing. In the middle of all this I start to think about something that does nothing but make me feel good and makes immediate sense and that's you ...And I'll stop here but, Jane, I'd give anything if you were two people so I could call up the one who's my friend and tell her about the one I'm in I...I don't think I should go any further. Come on -- I'll walk you to the corner.
Sounds like you may be on to something.
I figured out exactly why it is I'm so hung up on getting a chance at weekend anchor...It's because if I do that well, they'll pay me more, treat me great and my life will be better. That's why.
Well, whatever you think.
You're welcome. Sow how does it feel to...I know you gotta go -- Me too. We're very busy here.
Right and we have the '81 pilot on the way in -- Nobody else will have him.
Me again. Hi. Listen Gaddafi doesn't foam at the mouth or anything. When you speak to him he's not at all nuts. He seems like a leader -- very impressive, self-control...that's what's so strange.
Thanks. The F-14 is one of the most difficult planes to master. Oh, you call them 'Tomcats' and in the 70's the first crop had a number of crashes.
I think the pilot that shot down the Libyan in 1981 is stationed right here. Maybe you could get him -- and maybe Tom should say that our F-14 is one of the hardest planes to fly. They're nicknamed 'Tomcats'.
I'll come by your place, right after...drink, take pills... Love you.
I'll tell you later -- where you going to watch from?
Not because you have to.
I write for you sometimes.
Can you believe it? I just risked my life for a network that tests my face with focus groups.
To the pan of the supplies boxes --
We can cut back at the end.
Did you shoot their boots?
Okay. Great line at the end.
You spend too much time -- much too much worrying about that crap... Oh good.
Last time Paul was sick they gave Connie the weekend news instead of me.
If we don't get to their camp soon, we won't be able to tape the supplies coming in.
I didn't sleep. They're giving me less and less air time. They don't think I'm at all anchor material.
Oh, God. Back it, Bobbie -- Bobbie?
Eleven and a half.
You want to start going over who they could have gotten? They can't take on people like this for network news. For God's sake. What's going on?
They didn't hire Peter Stiller from the <u>Times</u> and he had a great audition tape.
Call if you get weird.
Wouldn't this be a great world if insecurity and desperation made us more attractive? If needy were a turn-on?
I'd give anything if that were true.
This conversation is not worthy of you.
Okay. I feel like I'm slipping but do people who are actually slipping feel that way or is it always the really good people who are moving up who invariably think they're slipping because their standards are so high?
Okay. Let's do me.
Because nobody invites a bad- looking idiot to their bedroom.
Why do you say that?
He must have been great-looking, right?
No. It makes me nervous to think about it. Let's do this.
Where's where I asked him about being scared? You should work on your speech.
Okay, I'll see you in the lobbies [<i>sic</i>].
A half hour in the lobby.
Now listen, Arnold just said that he's been making three million a movie now. But he's not ever gonna change. He's still the same person when he was making two million dollars a movie. He feels no different. He also bought a brand- new condo with Maria, they gonna furnish tastefully.
At six o'clock on the wake-up news they used the wrong missile graphic.
Hi. Turn on your TV... <u>Good Morning America</u>, the <u>Morning News</u> and <u>Today</u> are all about to talk to Arnold Schwarzenegger and I think he's live on at least two of them.
In other times, with other purposes, there might be a band and bunting here at the bus depot for J.D. Singer's return from war. Last week he was decorated by a president for heroism in a war. But it was the civil war -- in Angola -- and he was in it for the money.
I'll put him in the low corner of the frame -- good.
Oh, you mean use him...That's nice. Okay.
In other times, for other purposes, there might be a band and bunting here at the bus depot for J.D. Singer's return from war. He...
No -- Don't worry about it. Let's do this.
In front of a little -- it's a bit... You want a mirror?
It's an ethnic curl, I can't do anything about it.
Your hair's a little funny.
So I quit.
The cost-efficient reporter.
They told me they'd keep me because they could plug me into any story and my salary was in line.
It's what he did. I'm proud of him.
I understand. I'll go with you.
Okay. I think I'd better be alone for a while.
It's been a while since you read the news -- I'll have somebody work with you. Just on superficial performance things.
Prepare what? You have Saturday's news handy?
Please prepare carefully. This couldn't come at a better time.
Do it then.
I could do it this Saturday -- everyone wants off for the Correspondents' Dinner.
Do one thing to me? Get me one shot at anchoring the Weekend News -- they've never seen me do it. I think it could turn them around.
All I know is that they've got to fire a large number of people... and they're not going by seniority. There's a recklessness in the air. They...
Ah, damn -- the fucking jerks -- My, God. They want to fire me.
I'm no suggesting the worst will happen...but someone with your brilliance gets nibbles about other jobs and maybe, the next time that happens, down the road -- you should look into it.
Wait. Bullshit me a little...I'm beginning to appreciate it.
Aaron, I've never seen them like this -- I think Paul's nervous about his own job and for some reason he thinks you only appeal to...
Upper management thinks you're dull.
Just blunt talk, okay? I'd really appreciate bluntness.
Anyway. I want you to think of this as...
Wipe me out?
We know each other well enough for me to care how I put something to you which could wipe you out. So I will phrase things the way I think they should be phrased. All right?
Just tell me what's really going on. I think we know each other well enough for me to expect that.
I don't know if we have any younger man more respected in our operation than you.
Oh, I was just writing you a note. What do you say we take a walk?
I'll tell you what. I'll stay if Tom knows how to spell Gaddafi.
That's it. I resign as of now.
You didn't say anything to her?
I had the strangest thing happen yesterday. Anne and I have been married what? -- Thirty-six years... Everything fine -- two days after the promotion came through, I was checking myself in the mirror and she was making a face at me behind my back. So yesterday I looked in the mirror and she was doing it again.
I'm gonna go look at it again.
I saw the smile -- good piece.
Uh-uh. I'm a little freaked right now about seeing my father though.
All this business of war -- do you get scared?
It depends on how big a news day it is.
Fuck. Fuck. Fuck. Fuckes. Snot... Fuckee. You want to use that?
How long has it been since you've been home.
Move away from me.
We came from Washington.
Just a few questions?
My gosh, and for a while there, I was attracted to you.
No. I think anyone who puckers their lips and presses it against his boss' buttocks and then smooches is an ass kisser.
You think anyone who's proud of the work we do is an ass kisser.
Take care, Paul. It takes a certain kind of courage for you to say that in front of the President of the News Division.
Oh, come on -- tell us another.
I was a little nervous there for a minute.
We have a minute and a half. It's my responsibility to tell them we won't be ready.
Norman Rockwell's enduring portrait of a <u>Homecoming</u> The return of a fighting man has always been one of the more moving ceremonies of war... Tearful women, proud men, excited children. But J.D. Singer was right -- his homecoming was no big deal.
Oh, that's nice... We'll need some new lines.
Norman Rockwell's 'Homecoming.'
What is she shooting?
Okay. I just wanted you to know.
You can make it a little less brutal by knocking a million dollars or so off your salary.
This is a brutal layoff...And all because they couldn't program Wednesdays.
If we're not here for each other during the tough time, we're not a news organization.
Bill...This is hard on all of us and it's no time for compliments. But I think it's extraordinary of you to come down here for this.
I'd like to take everyone out after the show.
Just when do you start, telling people?
I'll speak to you soon
No, I don't. He happens to deserve the credit. He's right here.
Well, you always want to give the credit away, do you?
Aaron should be hearing this so I have an extra witness.
Well, the visual with the boots at the end was just perfect.
Thanks. I just wish you'd kept the first twenty seconds.
Well, darling, if it gets any better than that, I'm going to have to bring you up here to New York.
They canned me. Well, my brother will feel great -- now he's not the only screw-up.
I spent a fortune on this.
What are you dressed up for? Oh, that's right -- because the Evening News is here this week.
No, I'm not. I'm the fourth. Joan Richmond. Pauline Fredericks got that credit once on a U.N. special and there's Susan Zirinsky.
Do you know you're the second woman in network news history to produce?
Did you hear what I just said -- do you have that? Take a breath.
And Bobbie says...
Tell George and Jessica to try and cover everything without Tom having to ask additional questions.
I liked it. He's not afraid to be human.
Yeah, I know, I went back and forth on it.
I'll never tell.
What did he say?
Yes, there is.
I've got to tell Ernie...because there isn't enough time.
I'll be right down. It's right tight.
You don't have time. Not a chance.
You know, I like Tom, because hi...
Right there, Bobbie.
No stop where he's all besieged.
Do you want him all the way to the car?
Just a two-second dissolve.
Okay, Bobbie, just a two-second dissolve to the Rockwell.
Let me hear it!
He said something about...
Play back the last line...
Please, Bobbie, we're pushing.
Go back to 316, Bobbie. The sound bite in the cab -- it starts, 'I don't know how I'll feel...'
Well, who knows. Just let m tell you what my favorite teacher ever, told me -- 'Don't be afraid to be wonderful.'
I'll speak to you.
Hey, okay. Look Buddy -- I've got to go to work.
Good. He's on the world's longest ego trip, let him take it alone.
No. I'm doing fine...Look.
Look, I can start up with him again if you really...
I broke up with my roommate -- He was really the magnet for everyone who knew anything.
Yes, stop! I wondered if you could find out anything about what's happening. What's wrong?
Yes. You didn't have to come here. It's just that I'm going to anchor this special report on this Libyan thing...
Is everything all right?
Hey, Buddy, don't do that anymore.
What do you mean? You're one of the few people in this town I can talk to.
Okay. And look, in the future I can call you when I have news for you. Don't feel you have to spend time with me just to get the information. Well, that wasn't as hard to say as you thought, was it, Buddy?
No. Really...don't worry about it.
What if we just don't tell them anything anymore unless they let you do the story?
I wish it were you giving the story.
Nobody else had it.
Forgive me, but it really is intoxicating being a news source.
I see the change in you -- I see it.
Not impressed exactly -- but a break in the clouds.
Oh, please. So they were really impressed with you at work.
Thanks a lot, Buddy.
...and the White House is hoping to keep a lid on it for a few days till they figure out what to do.
My roommate's very social -- somebody from Justice was over and...I always hear things before they happen. Hey, and from now on, so do you.
Yes. How do you know?
Yes, it's true. They're going to make it public Wednesday but isn't it a big deal for you to have it a day and a half early?
Okay. At least let me show my appreciation. The Secretary of Labor is going to be indicted on Wednesday. For the graft thing he supposedly did before he was appointed.
I really have to go.
I know...I mean you didn't do anything special for me tonight. You just had what I think are good manners, decency. And it really makes me want to be nice back and it has nothing to do with any homosexual thing. Honestly. Because I don't know if you've homosexual or not and -- you're not, are you?
Yes. That's right.
I've been doing some morning show stuff, but mostly radio -- that doesn't bother me. I'm in no rush for anything. It's just the snotty attitude, even if I have it coming, it's still...
You talked me into it.
How do I get out of here?
No, I don't think so.
They're not really going to call security are they?
I could use somebody to talk to on a day like this. Sorry. Go ahead.
No. They're firing even more people than they said. Some will want to talk. It could help.
How horrible. We'll be fine. You'll be fine. Stay here with me -- we'll go for a drive, have some drinks, make happy plans.
They fired me.
Tell me I'm on the way in.
Ernie, they're calling from work.
Finish quickly. I don't want you getting obsessive about these things. Good night.
Nooo. This way the rotation stays the same.
You don't have to finish tonight.
I just have two more pen pals and then I'm done.
Jane -- For God's sake... Look, it's time for you to go to sleep.
...am starting to get jealous. I read in the newspapers about the Italian strike and riots in Milan. I hope you weren't...
That would be great. It better help. What can you do with yourself if all you do is look good?
Would it help if I got you a tutor?
Thanks, Dad, this talk helped. Will you sign it, please?
I'll just have to try harder. I don't know. I will. I will. I will. I will.
Oh my. I see you studying so hard, Tom. What do you think the problem is?
I got my report card. Three Cs, two Ds and an incomplete.
As long as that's your only problem you're...
Proud? I'm just embarrassed that I like when they say those things.
You know, Tom, I feel a little proud when people comment on your looks. Maybe you should feel that way.
No. But, honest. What are you supposed to say when they keep talking about your looks? I don't even know what they mean -- "Beat them off with a stick."
Were you bothering by those waitresses making a fuss?
No, nothing. I've got a problem, I guess.
I don't know.
Why so glum?
No. Not even you.
I don't know a recent Saturday I've sold more. You didn't think I'd sell that health restaurant, did you?
Fill for a second.
I had no idea she was this good.
No, it's awful. Oh my, it's awful.
It must be nice to always believe you know better. To think you're always the smartest person in the room.
You're just absolutely right and I'm absolutely wrong?
It's not opinion.
Okay, that's your opinion. I don't agree.
Tom isn't ready for the job you're about to hand him. Not near ready. Not by the longest shot. Aaron's spent six weeks in Tripoli, he's interviewed Gaddafi -- he reported on the Eight-one story. I think he's essential to do the job we're capable of and I think it's my responsibility to tell you that.
Okay...It's so good to see you.
I'm sorry because I was looking forward to that, but I' m going back in a few hours.
Well, we should talk. You going to have time for dinner? I'd like you to meet Lila.
Well, there's a guy, but he says he'll fly up a lot.
What a great surprise. I didn't think we had a chance. I heard you wanted to stay in Washington.
I thought for ol' Cliff here -- Look at you? You're more adorable than your pictures. Look what I got for you.
Well, why not? Hey, what is this? My life's rushing in front of my eyes.
Why did I have to do this to myself? Watch you take off. Call me if you need anything.
Take it easy.
It's better when you let me say it.
Then you should stay here.
It's just that one of the few things I'm not confused about is what I was saying downstairs, that...
You want to come?
So you have an extra bathing suit, huh?
Yes, I am. Thanks. I mean it.
You're lucky I came after you so you got that off your...
What I don't know, I can learn and what I know, nobody can teach. Excuse me for saying it about myself, but I think it's true. What do you think? Never mind what you think.
I knew what you meant.
Well, let's do a special report on that...I mean that's news.
I don't wan to discuss work.
You keep coming after me and looking down on me. It's starting to make me batty.
That's not going to be the way we say good-bye. Even though I think what you did was rotten -- it's not all impersonal. You mean something to me.
I'm leaving now. Gate 43.
It's amazing. You commit this incredible breach of ethics and you act as if I'm nitpicking. Try and get this. When you edited that...
This is a one-way argument. We've got six days; if you go and we fight and we hate it -- we'll come home. If you don't go? Well, that's a much bigger deal. I go to London right after that. So, it'd be very big deal if you stay here. The plane's boarding. You're good at deadline. Here's your ticket.
It just proves that the difference we have are...
It's hard not to cross it; they keep moving the little sucker, don't they?
Working up tears for a new piece cutaway...You totally crossed the line between...
I got promoted for things like that.
It made me ill. You could get fired for things like that.
Jesus, if you're glib about this I'm going to lose it. I was up all night and...
We disagree on how God-awful it was. Why don't you come with me and we can disagree and get a tan at the same time?
Of course it's the reason. It's terrible what you did.
I felt funny about it afterwards. It's verboten, huh? I thought since I did it for real the first time -- but I get you. That's not the reason you're not coming?
I saw the taped outtakes of the interview with the girl. I know you 'acted' your reaction after the interview.
Then give me a minute...
That's more than 'yes' -- that's 'you bet.'
Well, I just think that' an extraordinary proposal.
Sorry. I can't stand here feeing bad that I don't feel worse. This has happened at every station I ever worked for. Look, I think it's crazy for you to come in here tomorrow and start a new job. I have a week to get to my job. Let's get the hell away to some island fast and find out how we are together away from this.
How can you say that to me?
Maybe I haven't been here long enough. But, hey, congratulations on the promotion.
That's so perfectly...It really makes me feel a little faint... Whooo.
That it would be a treat to make someone like you feel better... He gets like that sometimes.
Yes. Then he said a really weird thing...
No. Did he really?
He -- uh -- said he liked you because you looked like you had -- fire and honesty.
I feel terrible about what happened. What did he say?
Okay, great, Grunick -- Easy shots now -- huh? Good night.
Jane, I'm not some chore you have to finish so you can stay on schedule.
Okay. Good night.
I'll see you at the office. Good night.
I've got my father coming through tomorrow anyway. I should get some sleep.
I don't know if that's absolutely necessary.
No. That sounds more important. Let's forget about tonight.
Hi, again. Sorry about...
Not if you count 'Singing in the Rain.' Do him a favor and don't treat it like a tragedy. You want me to talk to him?
It wasn't as bad as he think, was it? -- it wasn't unprecedented or anything?
I know. I taped it.
I'm not sure. It seems like he had sort of a mishap on the news.
I can't get away just yet. I'm at Aaron's.
Where are you?
Hi. It's me.
Okay. Sorry. Don't yell at me like that again, you scared the life out of me.
It's not that it's hard. I just want you to give me a minute to catch up.
He might be weird -- he can talk more freely if I go alone -- why's that so hard to understand?
Don't run off -- like everything's settled the minute you make up your mind.
No. I'll see you at your apartment as soon as I can.
I'd like to know. I'll go along.
I forgot all about Aaron. I promised to stop by and see how he did.
Good...Another is you're trying to make it all about sex and heat and nothing else.
That's not it.
Three...I just thought of a third... If you talk about it, you don't have to do it.
Oh let's see -- wait a minute, well, I can think of two reasons.
I don't remember saying anything like that -- exactly...I don't know why I just did.
Right, right -- Isn't she fun to tease?
Because you're nuts.
I was half hoping I wouldn't have a good time tonight. You know why?
This is hysterical.
You just can't stop editing me. Huh?
At least kiss me when you do that.
Why can't I let go of this woman?
You're not going to take off on me, are you?
Good. That's it...See you.
Suppose I go in for a little while and you wait in the lobby-bar. How's that?
It's incredible who's here.
It moved me. I did relate to it -- I really did. It was unusual for you to cut to yourself when you tear up -- and that might not have been my choice...but it's real and it got me...and I think a lot of the time I'm too conservative about that kind of stuff. Okay?
So what did you think?
I like you as much as I can like anyone who thinks I'm an asshole.
So you like me, huh?
We can go together.
Maybe I'll get off work. I'd like to go.
No. Were you going to you?
Why, you need me for the story?
No. Are you going to the Correspondents' Dinner on Saturday?
Nooo. Is it your story?
What pills did you take? You sound more like someone on a general anesthetic. Maybe I'd better speak to you tomorrow.
Says who? Not important -- ha-ha-ha. I was dreaming -- Oh, no -- can't tell -- how embarrassing for me. Gosh.
It's not important.
I had to sleep fast so I took two allergy pills to help me...I'm sorry...Hey, you called me.
Jane, yes. Tom? Tom, is that you? Is this Tom?
I'm not sure I dialed right -- Jane?
Yes, Tom -- I think I can manage.
If I tell you, can you manage not to put it down or tell me why it won't work or is in bad journalistic taste or anything like that?
Well, what is it?
I just read about it in a magazine and it affected me.
Believe me, I wouldn't be doing this unless it was absolutely necessary. I have an idea for something.
Eventually. Does it have to be right now?
I'm going to have to do a story from beginning to end on my own.
Too many smart people in one room -- it's not healthy...
Okay. You didn't like the party, huh?
Maybe we could just sit here -- talk a little?
I'll get you through. Move and smile. And smile and move...
Do I have to stand here in the middle and meet them all?
It's much too soon for you to have this kind of buzz around you.
I'll be the judge of that.
I'm not sure I'd be good company tonight.
Come on, I'll buy you a drink. There's a big thing over at the Italian embassy.
Hey, I know how to have a burger by myself. I feel like a little solitude.
Jennifer, you want to have another drink?
Well, I'll go in and have a bite.
There's no gang in there -- We were the last ones.
Well, I thought I'd check if all of you were still here. I'll just go in and join the gang and you two go on.
I didn't think you'd make it.
I'll wait for you till seven.
I'm going over to Aaron's. Maybe I'll hoop up with all of you later. How long do you think you'll be there?
You have to celebrate with me, don't you? Everybody's going to that bar on the corner, 'Caps.'
Indescribable -- you knew just when to feed me the next thing, just a split second before I needed it. There was a rhythm we got into, like great sex.
Yeah. It was an unusual place to be.
You're an amazing woman. What a feeling having you inside my head.
George Weln is at the Pentagon where the attack launched by the lone Libyan pilot has resulted in a massive movement of military might.
We're going to George. Say 'the Joint Chiefs are meeting -- we have George Weln at the Pentagon'.
Yes. Just don't say anything mean for a while. Thanks.
You're great at taking the edge off a good time.
Well, thumps like me leave appearance to guys like you.
At work there's always this sort of film over you.
What do you mean clean?
It's the firs time I've seen you dressed like this. You look so clean and pretty.
Okay, billion...right, of course. They told me I could have any producer I wanted -- and I want you.
The House Armed Service Committee has a secret report which says that the General Stillwell tank the Army has dumped a fortune into plain won't work. I have it cold, confirmed. They have five million dollars in this thing already.
Some public official skipped a week on his Christmas Club?
I've got another story.
Ah, I don't want any credit. Bobbie and I serve anonymously.
Give it to him -- so we can concentrate.
So he was indicted?
I just got back -- I don't know which end is up.
Can I buy you dinner sometime soon?
How's it going?
And it has nothing to do with the fact I left your room instead of staying there?
I can't help you, sorry. I'm not here to teach remedial reporting.
You make me nervous. Anyway if I can pick your brain --
'Really a lot appreciate it...'
I thought you were incredible in there. I know how much I have to learn. I'd really -- a lot -- appreciate it...if...
No. Aaron and I go to Central America on Wednesday -- so I'm cramming.
I can't believe I'm really here. No kidding. If you're through work now --
You weren't. Thanks. How does it feel being here?
I'm sorry if I was in the way. It was totally impressive. Great piece.
We're working here!! You can stand over in the uh, uh, uh...
They said it would be okay if...
Those audition tapes I sent out... I've been hired by your network for the Washington bureau. So I'll probably see you at work. Sorry.
I never told you the reason I was telling you everything for.
Just what do you want from me, anyway? Permission to be a fake? Stop whining and do something about it.
Whoa, this was a mistake.
I agree with you -- you're not qualified. So get qualified. You can insist on being better prepared. You don't have to just leave it as... 'I don't write. I'm not schooled. I don't understand the news I'm reading. But at least I'm upset about it, folks.'
It's hard for me to advise you since you personify something that I truly think is dangerous.
So, you're not well educated and you have almost no experience and you can't write.
One year...almost one year.
Well, come on -- it is your life. Nobody is tying you to the fast track. Did you go to college?
But that didn't stop me from sending out audition tapes to bigger stations and the networks.
I don't write.
What about the obvious remedy? Reversing things. Maybe getting a job on a newspaper.
I didn't even have the chance to get really good at sports. I wasn't bad. I thought I was starting to do interesting features but hockey is big at the station and...
I trust you.
Listen to me. You keep on thinking I'm somebody ho lacks...confidence. That's not it. I know I can talk well enough and I'm not bad at making contact with people, but I don't like the feeling that I'm pretending to be a reporter. And half the time I don't really get the news I'm talking about. It isn't that I'm down on myself. Trust me, I stink.
How are you at back rubs?
Except I'm no good at what I'm being a success at.
So great -- right?
I was doing sports at the station. The newspaper ran this untrue story that I was leaving and they got all these tons of protest mail. So they made me anchor.
No, I really got this job on a fluke and wait till you hear where it ends up.
Come on...Even I'm not that hard on myself.
Yes. My room is down here -- I'm not tired. Do you want to keep talking?
That actually goes on...
Another thing I can't stand is ...when White House reporters bullshit with each other after a briefing and then one of them has a theory and the other quotes it in his story as "White House" sources say...
Nooo. If I could just have a roll, I'd be okay.
Totally understood. Totally wrong of me to talk shop after the day you've had. Totally sorry.
If we could just eat first.
I haven't been in news that long. I've just been looking for the right person to talk to. I have about two thousand questions for you.
I like "godsend."
I kept thinking what a great break it was for me to get to see you tonight. More than a great break, maybe just what I needed...just when I needed it...Angel of mercy -- godsend...lifesaver...what?
I was a lot earlier.
Hi. I was worried I was early.
Well, they say if you can reach even one person, it means something... And you did that.
Thank you. They hated me. I don't hate them.
I just wanted to tell you how great you were. My name's Tom Grunick.
Right back to you.
I sure know that feeling. Terrific work today.
I can't be.
You're saying stay away from him.
God Almighty -- Whew. Do I mind? Why do I mind? I do mind. What a shock -- I don't have a right to... I don't think I like him. I know I don't respect him...So what am I talking about -- what am I saying to you?
Ummm -- it's dumb dorm stuff but I see Tom around you a lot and this is such a small office and I'd like to see him outside of work, unless there's some reason for you to mind... in which case I just won't do anything.
Go ahead -- what?
This is very awkward.
I'm not knocking it. It's a great solution. Not only the storage but you can see everything you have.
I converted a bedroom -- this stuff builds up. Wait till you've been doing this sixteen years.
Through the closet.
Where's the bathroom?
It would never occur to me to worry at all about you.
The last time I was with someone we went through this awful mutual disease questionnaire but I guess it beats getting paranoid the next day. Okay, I'll go first. I haven't...
I didn't have the guts to ask when I first came up. I'll get you a great tour.
This is my first time at the White House. Is there any chance to look at where he works and the rest of it?
Boy, that's nice...I wish we could all deal with each other like this. I'll check it. Anything I can do for you?
Look, I'm junior man -- and it's your beat.
How come you're not chasing it down yourself?
So he bought this Peugeot sedan at a greatly reduced price while he was there in charge of the White House Advance Team.
...that way we have someplace to go when we cut. And I just sit here, I nod my head and look nerdy.
I just need you for another minute now, so we can shoot from behind towards me, and, um...
The way you were looking at me, I just went.
Don't be silly. What are you sorry about?
Yes, I'm sorry.
Are you okay?
That's enough. That's enough.
I'll pose any way you want.
Look - This pose is all wrong!
Well I just wanted to make sure you know, fully and completely, that you're never gonna get any from me, at least in this lifetime.
It's just an innocent question. Besides I just wanted to clarify your intentions.
Are you a virgin?
Walter can I ask you something?
You're breaking my concentration!
A girl with a body like mine?
Without a stitch of clothing on, sitting and facing you...
When's the last time you had a totally nude girl in your room...
I already told you I'm not.
Not even a little bit?
Are you nervous, Walter?
Oh it's enough...
That doesn't look like very much clay.
Sit in this chair, and I'll pose you.
I'm almost ready -
It's kind of dark -
What, right now?
Yes. Fifty dollars an hour, right?
Well I'm touched. You're serious, aren't you?
I decided to make a female figure after all! I want you to pose for it.
Well I'm done talking to you, what do I have to do, draw you a diagram!
I didn't finish talking to you!
Listen schmuck, why don't you get out of here and let me go to bed!
I wanted to apologize for being nasty to you this evening.
What are you doing here?
I'm going home!
If you were an artist you could have created something!
That's not true I am a sculptor!
I'd be glad to help. For $50 an hour.
I just might.
Would you like to do me?
Don't you work here?
See you later -
He made a cat.
What did he do?
Everyone wants to meet the bus boy.
What the hell's going on?
You know it. I'm out of here.
Alright I got you, man. It's my turn for freak patrol.
Yeah, he's keeping an eye out, said he'd call us if he sees anything. That's about it for tonight.
Is the manager cooperating?
Not really. One girl who fit the descrip came in, kinda skinny, brunette, didn't see much changing hands.
Alright we're clear.
Don't you see Carla? I made them immortal.
Walter...stay away from me!
There's...a body inside that statue!
Ok...tonight. I'll make a statue of you tonight, OK?
Would you really like to? That would make me very happy.
Would you let me make...a statue of you?
Just about anything, Walter.
I've been thinking... Carla, would you do one favor for me?
I'm sorry about what I said before.
Oh sure, let's string along poor Walter, see how far it will take us!
Jeez, what is your problem all of a sudden?
Because... We're just friends. That's all. Just friends. WALTER I get it. I see the whole thing now. No one knows if Walter Paisley is born!
Walter... I don't want to hurt your feelings but there is no way we're ever going to get...together. You know what I mean?
No! I want to talk about it now!
Now calm down Walter! Now, let's go in there, and when the show's over, maybe we can talk about it.
You just can't be sorry! I wanna - I wanna marry you!
Walter, I'm sorry...
But you gotta love me! Why do you think I made that statue of Alice?!
Oh...f-for a long time. Ever since you first came to the club.
Uh... ...how long have you been thinking about this, Walter?
What are you trying to say?
- even though Leonard's always asking you to go out with him and I - just -
Well that was for your sculpture of the girl. Your nude in the chair.
I thought you did on account of you kissed me the other night!
I like you very much, Walter.
That means you like me!
Of course I do!
You think I'm creative?
Oh, I don't know. Smart people. Creative people I guess.
Well...w-what kind of people do you like, Carla?
Well...what did you want to talk to me about?
Nice night out...
I know. But I wanted to talk to you.
Ready? We've got plenty of time.
Are you ready?
I mean, you look so pretty.
I'm gonna make the most wildest wittiest things you ever seen... gonna make big statues and li'l statues, tall statues n' short statues...
Tell us what you're going to make next, Walter.
I know what it is to be ignored.
It's true, isn't it?
All about me...
Did you hear what he said?
May I please have another little kiss?
More champagne, your majesty?
Well I can't say that Walter! She's incomparable. They're both great.
You think she's better than Murdered Man?
Is it murdered man?
Yeah. Can some of you guys help me?
I came over to see you. I brought something...I wanted to show you.
What's up, Walter?
These guys came by to help me try out some of my new organic recipes.
Now you're a professional!
Gee..twenty five dollars for something I made!
It wasn't easy.
How did you ever find it all in yourself, Walter?
Like it? It's a masterpiece. I've never seen anything like it before... and I hope I never see anything like it again. Walter smiles and looks at his creation -
You can do anything you want if you set your mind to it.
Uh, well, I'm a little nervous, I never did a person before.
Let's see it.
It's not really that big I got it on kind of a stand...
Look at the size of it!
Yeah it was all just an accident.
It's called spontaneity, Leonard. Get with the program.
What's it called?
It's a...full length life-size figure!
Great! What is it?
Of course...it's wonderful.
You really like it?
I've never seen anything like this, maybe Segal, but nothing with such... dichotomy... It's very good, Walter -
A thing I made.
Don't worry about him...what have you got?
I'm honored to know this man.
Walter...I can't believe it.
When did you make this, Walter?
Put it in the middle of the room!
Don't worry it's a non-dairy sauce made from soy milk.
What's this sauce! I'm lactose intolerant.
I hope this was made with egg whites!
Here you go, enjoy.
Is it? I've forgotten.
That's word for word.
Well, it all depends, Leonard...
Would you pose for me for free?
You see the direction his realism takes! It's unhealthy!
Abstract? With his talent for realism?
Carla and I will guide you, help develop and evolve your work...maybe lead you toward something more abstract...
Yeah then you could unload - sell this stuff for a lot more.
That's the idea, Walter. It's the only way to gain recognition. All the big art critics and art dealers would be there, it would be an event.
It will take years to make that many statues. But your work would be featured.
You're right. We should build a collection first.
Well, I've been thinking... I didn't realize how much...talent Walter actually had. It would be wrong for us to show them one at a time. Dead wrong.
What's wrong with you, why do you want to hide it?
Why don't you cover it up, Walter!
No. Why don't you cover it up Walter...
I admit it.
Well then admit it, it's a work of genius.
Oh come on! Even you can see its value.
I've never seen anyone so... squeamish. Well, what's your opinion, Leonard?
Nothing...nothing at all.
What's the matter with you?
Listen, I'm going over to Walter's after the place closes. I want to get a look at Murdered Man. Do you want to come along?
Yeah, I'm feeling a lot better.
Yes...I'm uh...I'm fine.
Are you alright?
When do we get to see it? WALTER Well...any time, I guess.
I'm totally serious!
Are you trying to be funny?
Leonard, what are you doing?
You've arrived. You've been recognized. You're a talent, a creative force to be reckoned with.
I wouldn't give up your day job.
What are you doing here so early?
Oh yes...very nice...very, very nice...
I'm trying to find a style of my own. Do you really like them?
Do you have to be so cold to him?
Ah, your new head shot... I like it, very much...
Yeah, right outside the door!
That's alright, we got a pressing engagement!
Maxwell gave him a bottle of wheat germ oil. Maybe he started taking it.
No man, he ain't the type. He don't get enough vitamin E.
Man, why do you suppose Walter wants to get her alone? You suppose he could be physically attracted to her?
No man I'm on my own plane.
Didn't you hear him?
What did he say?
Yeah what's this, Murdered Elephant?
Man this is heavy!
Right. Ain't no body of work complete without some... nudes -
Man if you want to be a legit artist you have to do nudes, nudes, nudes...
Let's check out the scene.
Looks like that cat paid off in spades.
Man look at that get up !
Man if this place doesn't cool out I'm gonna hang out somewhere else...
There's that weird dude again.
I don't know it was made out of driftwood and dipped in sulfuric acid. It was out there...
Now what kind of statue was that?
I saw a statue once called The Third Time Phyllis Saw Me She Exploded.
Man that's a trippy name, kinda like the Warhol mayhem series...
I think he's looking for you, man... it's all finally catching up with you!
I wonder what his deal is.
I know, man.
I mean, screw them, you know? I'm just gonna go right on creating 'cause it comes from here - you know?
I know, man.
But it bugs me when someone rips off our ideas, our concepts, and people freak out about it, you know, and tell us ours stinks!
I know, man.
I mean it's like, you know, I do my art because that's what I am, you know? I'm an artist. I'm not like a banker, you know. Like I create.
Look at that, man. Big deal.
Not only that, he copied us!
Yeah, can you say plagiarism?
I do the research.
It's our road kill series. I take the pictures.
Well invite the critics, and the art collectors...we'll tell them...
When Carla comes by I'll talk to her. She'll make up some nice invitations. We'll have them printed up.
Well, w-what did you do?
Maxwell! He's behind all this with all his stupid blowhard poetry! Listen, you've got to stop right away! I'm beginning to feel responsible!
Well Why not? I gotta make statues Leonard. You heard Maxwell, they want me to make them. I can't go back to being a busboy!
Walter...Walter listen carefully. I don't want you to make any more statues. Do you understand? No more statues.
Put it down, Walter.
You made...a bust... WALTER Yeah isn't it wonderful?
Just wait till you see this!
What do you have in the box?
Hello Leonard! Beautiful morning, isn't it?
Yeah and what would I say?
You might talk too much.
You better hold off on the bubbly.
These things take time Walter... but for now you've got to break out of this one...avenue you're on...
A show..how soon can we go?
N-no! Not exactly, I mean you take years and years...
A show?! Like this Sunday?
You want me to open a window or something?
It's hot in here...
Well, I mean it could have been something else, but it just worked out that way.
You didn't mean to what?
I don't know, it just happened, I guess. I didn't mean to.
Well...why murdered man?
I-I already got a new one!
The question is what are you going to make next, Walter? Did you make that dog yet, or that parakeet? How about making something out of the cockroaches in your room?
What, Mr. De Santis?
You know what that proves?
What am I doing? I'm just telling Walter the truth.
Now why shouldn't you, Walter? Things are different now...
I thought I'm not supposed to sit with the customers...
Have a seat -
H-have a seat?
Good night Walter.
OK...good night Mr. De Santis!
Well make a dog, make a parakeet! I'm sure you'll think of something.
I don't have another cat!
Look, go home and...work on something. Make another cat.
No, it's Ok...you came in early. Besides, you're creating an incident. When people are applauding they don't order anything.
Well I don't know -
Yes they are, aren't they? Look, why don't you take the rest of the night off, you look tired.
Did you hear that Mr. De Santis? Everyone's really crazy about Dead Cat.
Enough already about it - get to work!
People seem to like my cat.
Alright get a grip on yourself Now since you're here why don't you start early, the kitchen needs cleaning.
All that is comes through the eye of the artist...
Sure! So I guess that means I'm an artist after all.
Alright, I'll tell you what. I'll put it in the corner of the alcove. If it sells, we'll split it fifty- fifty. How's that?
Got carried away, huh?
I didn't mean to.
Well...why did you put a knife in it?
You want me to buy Dead Cat? It'll scare people away.
You want to buy it, put it in the club?
Well it sure looks dead enough.
I said I did, didn't I!
I didn't buy it I made it.
Where'd ya buy that?
What is it, your laundry?
Well I brought something, I wanted to show you.
Well do some looking around the room. I see cups, ashtrays - let's go...
Well I was uh, just looking...
Well that's not what I pay you for, now is it?
I was just looking at Carla's picture.
Walter, what are you doing?
Can't you see I'm busy here?
Listen to me, listen to me...I've been collecting art pieces all over the world for years and let me tell you something. This newcomer Walter Paisley has it, whatever it is, the X factor, that indefinable quality that separates the greats from the hacks, and I want that cat in my hands. Are you listening to me?
I'm holding for Lieutenant Beldere!
Listen to me...I don't want to lose this piece -
No...look I'm busy...
What do you want for it? Two thousand? Three thousand?
I can't talk right now.
What offers have you got for it? I won't be out-bidded. I'm a wealthy man and I don't mind paying for something I want.
I'm trying to reach Lieutenant Beldere...
I want that cat. I'll pay you one thousand dollars - cash.
Excuse me I have to make a call...
I tried to contact you by phone but I couldn't...
NO YOU'RE GONNA SHOOT ME DON'T SHOOT -
Walter shut up and relax!
YOU'RE GONNA SHOOT ME!
NO! NO DON'T SHOOT ME I DON'T WANT TO GET SHOT!
What are ya, deaf? Turn around!
You're gonna shoot me!
I ain't going no place with you!
Don't give me a hard time Walter! You don't want to get me mad! You're coming with me!
Wait a minute - I told you I didn't do nothing wrong!
Yeah yeah yeah - look! I've heard this song and dance before, save your breath, you're coming with me! Lou goes to turn Walter against the wall but Walter springs back -
I didn't do nothing wrong! That was Mayolia's! I didn't ask her for it. I don't know about any -
I got you cold, pal. Make it easy for yourself, use your head.
Wait a minute! What'd I do?
You're coming downtown with me, Walter. You're gonna come clean with me, you're gonna name names or I swear to God I'll see to it personally you rot in a cell upstate! Are we understanding each other?
I- don't know what you're talking about!
Good ol' mild mannered Walter! Give it up. It doesn't fly with me.
Who do think you're dealing with, huh? I'm willing to cut you a break, chief!
Oh, yeah. It can get real expensive.
Is that what that is? I never seen any before. I always thought that stuff was expensive!
Haven't you ever heard of smack! Horse! Junk! Heroin!
Alaska! What the heck's wrong with it!
Goddammit, where are you from, Mars?
Who's the head honcho! Who's providing the smack connection!
Telling you what?
I'm not looking to pinch you! I don't care about you, or the girl. But you want to save your ass, you better start telling me what I want to hear. Now!
But I got a feeling you're gonna cooperate with me. Yessir, I think you and me are gonna be real good friends. Why don't you tell me about your connection.
Possession of narcotics isn't something we take lightly, you understand?
You're in some deep shit pal, whether you know it or not.
You're like an undercover guy!
You can cut the crap.
Chasing the dragon? Whaddya mean? You sure you don't want a pancake?
You like chasing the dragon, Walter?
Oh yeah that was Mayolia, she's a nice girl. She's kind of strange, though.
I also saw the girl give you this.
Yeah I did.
Did you see my cat?
I was going to make some pancakes, you can have some if you like.
Yes, you have. Can I come in?
Hi. I know you! I've seen you down at the Jabberjaw plenty.
How ya doin'?
I don't! But fifty thou? That's not money, that's manna!
I thought you didn't respect money!
Why on Earth should you be so depressed? Have you heard some of the things they've been saying? You can make fifty thousand on these pieces alone!
It would imply you could not succeed on your ability alone!
I won't say good luck, Walter.
After that we go no more!
An' everyone will say Walter let me shake your hand...it's a real pleasure to have known you...
No thanks. Sounds good though.
Wheat germ omelette, guava nectar and garbanzo sprinkled with smoked yeast. Join us?
Good morning Walter!
Uh, I don't know.
And what project looms on the horizon, Walter?
I see the rewards of achievement have come your way.
Did you like it Mister Brock?
I saw your...cat.
Yes, get rid of them...
Are you done with these?
I worked in one of them. Back in Alaska.
I know that - I know that! I also believe in burning the creative candle, you understand, down to the end - to be uncreative you might as well be dead...a walking machine, toiling in a factory!
I thought you believed that life is a homeless traveler riding on the RTD of -
"Let them die, and by their miserable death become the clay in his hands, that he might form an ashtray or an ark -"
Well I'm overjoyed.
I liked it very much Mr. Brock. I liked it very much.
I don't think anyone gets what I said, their blank faces staring, mute, unfeeling -
Let it inspire you. Maybe it will let you think of me.
I want you to have it. There's a little something for you in here...
Then let me give you something then...
You don't have to do anything!
I want to be part of it, I want to inspire you, I want to do - something!
I don't think so Mayolia.
Oh no, I couldn't do that. Mrs. Swicker would start asking questions. She's my landlady.
Well, I'll go home with you.
I can't. I gotta go home.
Let me into your world Walter... let me into that white hot inspired world.
That's really nice of you Mayolia.
A hot light bulb is burning inside of you. I want to be warmed by it.
It's like...you've turned on.
With Dead Cat. Like a breath of fresh air. I could just - babble on about it for hours.
With Dead Cat?
Walter, you did something to me with your work tonight.
Your work, the layers of irony.
What do you get?
I get it Walter. I get it.
What's the matter with you!
I will - good night Mrs. Swicker!
Well why don't you clean up this dump!
Uh, Mrs. Swicker I got to meet some friends later, and I have to take a shower!
Uh, I can take real good care of myself, Mrs. Swicker!
She doesn't have to be pretty... just as long as she takes good care of you...
Well yes I guess I have been Mrs. Swicker. Somebody's got to.
Walter have you been talking to yourself again?
I'm always alone, Mrs. Swicker, you know that.
Straightening up indeed! Are you sure you're not alone?
I was just straightening up the place.
Don't tell me I didn't hear a racket! I'm an older woman and I don't need to be upset and disturbed in this manner!
Noise Mrs. Swicker? What noise?
What's all the noise in here!
Good night, Mrs. Swicker -
Good night Walter...
OK Mrs. Swicker.
If you see him.
T-tell him that?
What's got into that cat? Well if you do see him, tell him I've got a nice fat piece of ocean-fresh halibut for him -
Uh, no, I didn't see him at all.
Oh no, that's OK, I can fix myself something. Besides, I got something important to do...
If you were my son...why don't you let me fix you a nice hot bowl of soup, it won't take but a minute.
I had a salami sandwich, Mrs. Swicker.
Walter you look awful pale! What did you have to eat today?
Hello Walter. I want to tell you the super fixed the leaky pipes and sealed up that hole in your wall.
Oh, hello Mrs. Swicker.
No... Not a boy... Find out if they're dead. And do something about that arm. Honestly, I don't know how you made it through the Crusades.
I don't know. But the boy, he couldn't kill them.
The other two -- the new ones. Where are they?
I look horrible.
Cheer up. You may still.
I had him in my grasp.
You reckless imbecile. This place is ours for the taking and you let yourself... twelve hundred years old and you act like a child.
Shut up! You let him have it!
My arm! He took my fucking arm!
What's wrong with you!?!
Not as single-minded as the others, not as sybaritic. Almost thoughtful. She's useless.
I don't think this is gold.
Let's move out!
Nice to feel needed.
What's with you?
Whoa! Whoa! I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I don't actually need any right now.
Coach knows what abs are?
I don't know. Coach said I had to work on my 'ab's.'
... And they're having some memorial service or something tomorrow. You going?
Well, um... litter?
Stay away from my thang. Sorry, honey. 'Thing.'
I like it. Can I be your friend?
Andy, start breaking up some chairs. You'll need weapons.
Buffy, this is crazy. What do these guys want?
Thanks. Have you seen Jeffrey?
Buffy! Looking tasty.
Absolutely. I see now the error of my mistake.
Don't grab me, okay?
He's got a... What do you call it? A Napoleonic Code.
Man has a complex.
Jeffrey, I don't mean to sound sexist or anything, but can I borrow her?
I mean it.
Get away from here.
Let me in, Pike! I'm hungry!
The sun! It burns! It burns!
No offense, man, but I think you're on something nasty. Why don't you just go and cool out and I'll see you in the morning or something.
I... feel.... pretty.
You look like shit, Benny.
Wait a minute. What's wrong with you, man?
Invite me in, Pike.
Hey, I'm trying, but this window is burnt --
Let me in.
Benny, man, where you been? You bailed on me, I passed out, man, I almost did a Jimi Hendrix!
Our own world, where we could live and grow beans. Hundreds of beans.
Utterly. Let's bail this town. It's getting... I don't know. Let's go somewhere where there aren't any rich bitches.
You think? Split?
When you get your car together, man, let's bail.
Oh, yeah, and then you'll never call me.
I got a news flash, man, another shot of this and I'll have sex with you.
Well, there it is, isn't it? You don't even like them, and you'd sleep with them. What's that all about?
Yes. Definitely. Definitely. Please, God.
Would you sleep with them?
They're all the same! They're so stuck up, they're just... they're not even human. I hate them.
You didn't like them.
Rich bitches. They're a plague. They've gotta be stopped.
Hey! She wasted my dog!
We hate you guys!
You're the guys from the movie!
Do people ever call you 'Buffy the Buffalo?' I'm just wondering.
We're looking at a dog, possible coffee...
That's it, man. That's the whole story.
Come on, come on, fork up the scub.
Oh, yeah. But I still want to know what happens.
No, we didn't.
Wrong answer! No prize.
Which way did she go?
My bike! She's a lesbian, too. She told me.
Yeah, I saw her. Bitch took my wheels.
You don't mean, like, a cheerleader?
Did you see a girl come by here?
Guys. Guys! Reality pulled out of her five minutes ago.
He doesn't look fifty.
Don't tread on the earth?
Hey, I was thinking, for the dance, what about a big sign that says 'Don't Tread On Me'. You know, and a picture of the earth.
Guys. The environment. I'm telling you, it's totally key. The earth is in terrible shape, we could al die, and besides, Sting's doing it.
Are there any good sicknesses that aren't too depressing?
Probably. What movie is this?
Oh, my God. Is that true?
My mom doesn't go anywhere. She even does the shopping network. I'm gonna die a virgin.
Yeah, I guess.
Your parents are always going away for the weekend. You're so lucky.
What's playing there?
Aren't we the chatty ones. Kiss noise.
I don't know, Mom; I've never met Bobby.
What's Bobby gonna say?
Have you gained a few pounds? Maybe it's that outfit...
Uum... around ten?
Do you know what time it is?
I'm out of here. Jenny.
You left me a message?
You weren't home. Like always.
You broke up with my machine?
Didn't you get my message?
No, you didn't. When?
Oh, come on, Buffy. You know what's going on. It's not working out at all. I've got to move on. I mean, I've got needs, too. I told you about all this.
I don't understand.
I'm here with Jenny.
I thought we were meeting here.
Buffy, what are you doing here?
Jeffrey. Projectile vomit.
So that's your tutor, huh? What is he, like, your boyfriend now?
So I noticed.
I can take care of myself, Jeffrey.
I can't get sick. You know -- training and all. I'm gonna be late.
I went to sleep. I think I have the flu or something.
Where were you last night? I called your house like four times.
I do? I guess I do.
Hey, baby, how ya doing? You look beat.
Are you going out with Jeffrey tonight?
Nothing. It was just a dream.
Come on, what was it?
What'd you dream about?
You were having a nightmare.
I just want to see the basketball scores. It's important.
Oh. Who's in it? I know what it is. It's what's on instead of the movie.
It's the news, Buffy.
What show is this?
Hey, it works for me. If they want to leave you alone in the house, all helpless and vulnerable...
Something like that.
Real 'quality-timers,' Hugh.
Well... it's possible they think my name's Bobby.
I... yeah, I'm okay. I'm fine.
I am so sure.
I am a God! A God!
This? This is you only weapon? Your puny faith?
I think you've forgotten something.
You're even weaker than the others.
Have you ever thrown up in the front row of a Richard Marx concert?
Ah, my fool is dead. He was careless, always. Still, I'll pull out your tongue for that. Don't you understand? I've killed you a dozen times. Your life is not a blink of my eye, not a single breath. I have lived in the shadows, in the pulsing filth behind men's eyes. A thousand years, and more. I have conversed with the worms that fed on my corpse and I have bathed in the blood of emperors.
You're the boss, boss. I just thought maybe we should wait.
We've come all this way. We just have to check it out. I got a hunch.
Who's afraid? Besides me, I mean.
Don't be such a fraidy-cat.
I didn't say it was a bad idea, I just said the timing was off. We could maybe wait till later.
Get away from me!
Are you okay?
Buffy, there's no way you're going out there alone.
Good thing one of us was prepared.
You say that like it's a bad thing.
You're staying here. Some of them might not come after me. If they don't this place is gonna turn into a total stain.
Are you nuts, Buffy? There's a hundred of them out there. They'll rip us apart.
I'm going out the front.
I don't actually think Jeffrey's gonna notice.
Will I get the shit kicked out of me if I ask you to dance?
Yeah, you look like you're having a swell time.
I'm glad you came.
Pretty shallow of you.
I crashed your party.
Benny was right. You guys are all exactly the same.
Leave me alone.
I should have known.
Right. I'm the chosen one. And I choose to be shopping.
But, Buffy, you're the guy, the chosen guy.
He did what he was supposed to.
Listen, I know you're bummed about your friend, and I'm really sorry...
I don't want to kill anybody, and I don't want to talk about it anymore.
You got that right. I thought you wanted to kill vampires.
It's not a mixer. It's the senior dance. And it's important. You wouldn't understand.
I don't believe this. The world's under attack by the legions of the undead and you're going to a mixer?
In order to dance and to drink punch and to be with my friends. Comprende?
I'm going to the dance.
Second word... sound like 'dance'.
I'm going to the senior dance.
For the dance.
Dress, huh? What for?
Cool. I could actually use a couple of Allen wrenches. What do you need?
I'm going shopping. Don't try to stop me.
I been working on some stuff for you. What'cha doing?
Oh, God. It's him. I think it's him.
Buffy? What's wrong?
I think I could help. You gonna tell me you don't need help?
Pike, I don't think you're up to this.
Besides, Oxnard sucks.
I don't know. I kind of thought I ought to be here. You know, this isn't exactly the kind of thing you can run away from.
Why'd you come back?
I didn't expect to see you.
You know, you saved my life. And I just wanted to say... I forgive you for talking during the movie. Almost.
Oh, I'll be fine. Got my chair, got my window, I'm great.
I think I'll just hang out here. Make sure the sun comes up and everything.
I'm kinda beat. You can stay in my mom's room if you want.
No, you're not.
It's weird. I went back to my old grade school once, to the playground -- I used to hang out there all the time, playing on the swings and stuff... I went back and it was so tiny, the whole place. I couldn't even fit on the swings. Everything just looked so small. I'm sorry. I'm babbling.
I know. My guidance counselor never mentioned anything about vampires. 'Prison' came up a few times, but nothing about undead.
Three weeks ago all I thought about was... well, I didn't actually think about anything. I definitely didn't expect this.
I'll back that up.
Things are kind of confusing.
It's nothing. It doesn't hurt.
Hey, jeez are you okay? You need a hand?
Well, I've always wanted to see Oxnard.
Where are you gonna go?
Thanks. Tomorrow morning, I'm on a bus. I'm gone.
Well, stay here tonight.
Yeah, I was bailing. I have a friend, and he's really... well, he's really vampire, I guess. Bad scene.
You had a car full of stuff. Were you leaving?
God! Unbelievable. Vampires.
They were vampires, weren't they?
Do you do this kind of thing a lot? I mean, is this like a hobby?
You want some water or something?
Oh, I'm good. I'm good. Kind of miss my knees, though.
How are you doing?
It was. I think it's pretty much ready for the --
Is that your car?
Yeah, we're drunk. We're the Drunks. What's your name?
You guys are thrashed.
Can we have a hot dog, please, medium rare, and a cup of joe?
It could happen.
Will you guys shut up, please?
Like my homework.
You're weird and I'm afraid of you. Seriously, Cassandra, there's a lot cooler things you could be doing than your homework.
I really can't. Besides, it's pretty interesting.
Bogutude. Blow it off.
Can't. History report. The Normans and the Saxons.
Okay, guys, how about the ozone layer?
See, Cassandra likes it. Cassandra's my friend.
It is a pretty crucial subject.
'One that reflects the students' growing awareness of and involvement in the world around them.'
It has to be, like a socially conscious theme.
I know. I like your little outfit.
You look way pretty, Kim.
Yeah, whoops I came.
I'm glad you guys are here. It's good to see you.
Get out of my facial.
Listen to you. What language are you speaking?
Kimberly, it's a dance. It's a stupid dance with a bunch of stupid kids that I see every stupid day.
This isn't important? The earth is our home.
Excuse me for having something important to do.
Oh my God you're having an affair.
Look, a lot's been going on. That's what I wanted to tell you guys about. I need to tell you. You see... a while ago, I met this guy --
Buffy, what is your sitch? You're acting like The Thing From Another Tax-Bracket; it's too weird.
You were supposed to be here at three.
Get a boob job.
Buffy, I'm gonna tell Jeffrey you were playing with another man's Hebrew National.
I didn't learn... I just... it's not a big deal.
Kimberly, it's the senior dance.
I don't see why we have to invite everyone.
Let's meet tonight, okay?
'Just remember you're in training, son'
What did Jeffrey's dad say?
Excuse much! Not rude or anything.
Sounds toasty. We're going Pavilion.
Totally stale. And the ushers are like, the acne patrol. We're thinking Pavilion. Sitch?
Please. They show previews for foreign movies.
Why don't we see a movie?
What are we doing?
Please. It's so '91.
) What do you think?
Guys, what's the sitch? I'm bored.
He knows who I am!
And where are they now?
None of the other girls ever gave me this much trouble.
You're learning. Slowly, incredibly slowly, but you're learning.
Football is my life.
Try and be inconspicuous, okay? Act like a fan.
Oh, I'll be there all right. I'm not letting you out of my sight. Not till you're ready.
Toasty. You should come; it's gonna be a great game.
I'm pretty much learning not to accept anything anymore. Come on, Merrick. Football. Afterwards we can kill and kill until there is nothing left.
Sooner or later you're going to have to accept it. Your fate.
Why because it's not my fate? It's not in the Book-of-All- Knowledgefullness that I'm gonna be cheerleading at the Barber game?
Another distraction. It's not right.
Make time, okay? You're the one who told me to act normal. I've missed three practices already. If I'm not there for the Barber game tomorrow everyone's gonna talk.
There isn't time.
I kind of had to improvise. Sorry about your guitar.
Okay. The important thing is not to panic.
I want to die.
Well, you're on my turf now. You're just gonna have to trust me.
My clothes have always been perfectly serviceable.
Because you clash, Merrick. You clash with everything. I mean you might as well go around with a sign, 'Slayers trained her.' Honestly, you look like something out of... Pasadena.
But it's in the back. Why are we wasting time with this, anyway?
We call them zippers. They're not supposed to be a challenge.
I can't work this.
I mean, most of the time Jeffrey's really sweet, but sometimes he gets kind of... 'Me-Tarzan'ish, you know what I mean? Lately it bugs me, I guess. Merrick? Are you still breathing?
Merrick. You made a joke. Are you okay, I mean, do you want to lie down? I know it hurts the first time.
Vampires of the world, beware.
Well... there's my keen fashion sense, for one.
As for example, what?
Well, you know, I'm not gonna kick so easy. I've got a few things the other girls didn't have.
And it makes it worse when I die, right?
Buffy, don't... don't start thinking of me as your friend. It interferes with the work, and it...
I'm curious, is all.
It isn't important.
I wish you would.
There's a small village in Hampshire, near Stonehenge... ... near a bunch of big rocks. That's where I was born. My father taught me about the training, about finding the Slayers, reading the signs. There's a small cluster of us, a few families, really... most of the neighboring villagers think we're just a bunch of harmless old loonies. I thought so myself for a time, when I was younger... I'm sorry. I'm not supposed to... I shouldn't go on like this.
It's what I was raised to do. There aren't many of us left, the Watchers.
How can you keep doing this?
Not if you're careful.
So, basically, I've got the life expectancy of a zit, right?
What did you think, that being able to jump about and hit people makes you a Slayer?
Do you know how many girls I've trained to be Slayers? Five. Five properly prepared girls, girls who faced their responsibilities, who worked hard to become women overnight -- harder than you've ever worked in your life -- and I saw them ripped apart. Do you want to live? Do you?
Oh, fuck you!
What do you want? Encouragement? 'Gosh, Buffy, you're so special, I just want to give you a great big hug, oh I'm just having a warm fuzzy.'
And why are you always wearing black? It's so down. It's totally not your color. I don't think you have a color.
Aren't I, like the chosen one? The one and only? The Grand High Poobah and doesn't that mean you have to be nice to me? Like, ever?
Don't start with me again.
A wet! Didn't I just kill that vampire? I think I did. I didn't see you killing any vampires. You were too busy playing 'Beat the Clock'.
You are such a wet.
You'll get used to it. I'm more worried about your tactical mistakes.
Oh, wonderful. My secret weapon is - PMS. That's just great. Thanks for telling me.
It's natural. A reaction to their presence, to the... unnaturalness of it. It's part of how you are able to track them.
Nice conversationalist! Yeah, I felt 'em a little, but I ain't due for two weeks since you're so excited about the subject.
You felt a little sick, didn't you? The cramps.
Does the world 'Duhh' mean anything to you?
And the alley was a mistake. Never corner yourself like that. If they'd come at you in force you'd be dead now. One vampire is a lot easier to kill then ten.
He was slow. Very simple. They won't all be that easy.
Try to pay attention.
They were vampires?
All right. You've heard of the emperor Caligula, perhaps? Or Jack the Ripper?
Good Lord. What do you study in history?
If I say 'no' does that make me a bad person?
Oh, several. Lucretia Borgia, Joseph Mengele, Franklin Pangborn... are any of those names familiar?
Toasty. Were there ever any, like, famous vampires?
No. No bats, no flying. They... float, occasionally. Not really flying.
What about bats? Do they turn into bats?
Ooh, another embarrassment for the teabag, while the chosen one is still well under par.
Exactly. You're changing. You're becoming something extraordinarily powerful.
No... I guess I would have gotten Jeffrey to hit you.
Two days ago, would you have even hit me? Let alone so powerfully?
Put your head back.
Don't you see what's happening? You're changing. You've got powers you've only just begun to tap. Physical, mental prowess you've never dreamed of. God, this hurts. I've administered a few shocks to your system to start the adrenaline working. I'm sorry I have to take so many shortcuts in the training process.
I don't think you understand the full implications of --
Last night. You knew I was sitting on a fresh grave, didn't you?
It was necessary.
I don't want to be the chosen one, okay? I don't want to spend the rest of my life chasing after vampires! I just want to graduate from high school, go to Europe, marry Charlie Sheen and die. It may not sound too exciting to a sconehead like you, but I think it's swell. And then you come along... and... and then I'm a member of the hairy mole club, so you throw things at me!
And you caught it! Only the chosen one could have done that.
But you threw a knife at my head!
I had to test you.
Oh, what the hell is wrong with you? You threw a knife at my head!
No. You don't do anything. I do it.
Oh. I thought... you lead me --
No -- you don't have to --
Who we gonna beat?
Who we gonna beat?
Yes, yes. It would be interesting. A nice cheer.
All right. Why don't you show me a cheer?
Sporting events, yeah.
Cheerleading. For... sporting events, yes?
Well... I do cheerleading now. It's way cooler.
But you enjoyed it, yes?
Well, everybody says... it's just kind of dorky. I mean, have you ever seen a gymnast's legs? They're like -- -- the mighty oak. It's not a look.
Yes, you used to do gymnastics. But you stopped. Why?
I tell you, the best thing I can do right now is find out more about you. What your strengths are, your likes... Everything. What's your best subject?
Not a pressing issue.
We're going to have the work hard. You'll need some excuse for staying out. For your parents.
Great. First I have a birthright, now I've got a fate. Hey, do I have to take notes on this?
In a way, yes. Your fate is inexorably connected to them.
I still don't get how they happened to come to my town. I mean, was I born here because... because they were coming here? That Lothos guy, and his buddies?
We'll cover it later.
Yes. They travel about, usually with one or two of their followers to lay the groundwork. The vampires find a community and they feed on it, make it their own. You were difficult to trace, and I think the process has gone a lot further than I'd anticipated. Usually this goads a community into some kind of paranoid frenzy. But for some reason, nobody here seems to be paying any attention.
Oh, yes. And the man from your dreams. Lothos.
A Vampire-King? You mean like Dracula?
Do you know what a Vampire-King is?
Why do you keep saying that?
There's a great deal I have to show you, I'm not even sure where to start There's so little time.
What, um... What do we do?
It's not pretty, but it does suit our purposes.
They can't come in, right? Unless you invite them. Is that true?
I have cheerleading squad.
Meet me at this address after school.
Go to school tomorrow. Try to act normal. Don't let anyone know what's happening. This is important. When the vampires find out who you are... you won't be hunting them anymore.
Where's the other one?
We wait for Robert to wake up.
All right. What do we do now?
Just for protection. You won't have to do anything. I just need you to watch.
Wait a minute.
This is it.
None of your business. God.
Oh, yeah, tell everyone I'm crazy. Beauty ida.
Why didn't you ever tell anybody about your dreams?
I can't believe I'm doing this. I can't believe I'm in a graveyard with a strange man hunting for vampires on a school night.
I have to show you.
How do you know all this?
I had a dream once where I was... There was like, knights in it, and I worked in this bar. And I... was fighting. I'm always fighting. And there's a guy... He's not always there, but he's horrible, all white, and he's always... trying to kill me.
Oh, my God. I never told anybody about this. I remember the one about the peasant, too. God, there's a bunch. Is this, like channeling or something.
I don't know. It was... There was a big gram or something. And there's one, I'm like a prostitute...
I was a slave.
In the past. A girl. Maybe... A Magyar peasant. An Indian princess. A slave.
Did you ever dream that you were someone else?
Just stay away from me, okay?
I don't have time for your prattling. I have proof. You bear the mark.
Does Elvis talk to you? Tell you to do things? Do you see spots?
Let me get this straight. You're like, this greasy bum, and I have to go to the graveyard with you 'cause I'm chosen, and there's vampires.
To stop the killing. To stop the vampires.
Time to do what?
You must believe me. You must come with me while there's still time.
Chosen to go to the graveyard? Why don't you just take the first runner up, okay?
You don't understand. You have been chosen.
You're one of those skanky old men that, like, attack girls and stuff. Forget you. My, um, my boyfriend is gonna be here in about thirty seconds, and he's way testy.
Wait a minute. My birthright is in the graveyard? Later not.
You must come with me. It's much too late already. You must come with me to the graveyard.
I had a trust fund my great- grandfather, or maybe it was an inheritance, 'cause he's dead, and I spent it on shoes.
My birthright? You mean, like a trust fund?
To bring you... your birthright.
I've searched the entire world for you, Buffy.
What are you talking about?
Not at all. My name is Merrick. I was sent to find you some time ago. I should have found you much sooner but there were... complications. You should have been taught, prepared.
Am I in trouble or something?
I'm looking for you, actually.
What? Oh. I used to do gymnastics. Are you looking for someone?
I'm sorry. That was impressive. The... tumbling.
God, where the hell did you come from? You scared me to death.
I haven't seen him tonight.
Have you guys seen Jeffrey? The limo never showed, I thought he might be here.
Later for it.
Well, I guess you got what you came for.
You're having a fling with him?
Buffy, Jesus! You know these steps.
You and Cassandra get anything done last night?
Hey, Buffers. You look thrashed.
Yeah, just make sure you do first. Let's go, guys.
Don't worry, Jennifer. Someday your prince will come.
Yeah... She's okay, though.
Cassandra's really smart.
You guys blow. I'm waiting on Cassandra. She's gonna help me with my history.
How do you not tread on the earth? I mean, you kind of have to.
I don't get it.
Nobody is even gonna look at the game.
Thank you very much.
That is so cool.
No. It was mondo bizarro.
I was just scared is all.
-- like she's gonna kill me.
What, it's not weird. I just cut the stupid hot dog in half.
Come one, that was so weird.
Cassandra, you gotta come, too.
Cool. We can figure decorations and stuff.
That's the plan.
So, is Jeffrey really spending the night at your house?
They don't even have Dolby.
Excuse me for not knowing about El Salvador. Like I'm ever going to Spain anyway. Ooh!
You got a C-plus? I can't believe I cheated off you.
Mr. Howard is so heinous. He's always giving me a hard time. I get a C-plus on the test and he tells me, 'You have no sense of history.' I have no sense of history? He wears a brown tie.
Swear to God.
No, wait. I can be dumb. Really. Or mean, or whatever. I can learn. I'm useful.
Are we so strange? So alien to you? I've seen this culture, the wealth, the greed, the waste... it's truly heartwarming. The perfect place to spread my empire. Honestly, Eastern Europe was so dead, the Communists just drained the blood out of the place. It's livened up a bit in the past few years, but it's nothing compared to this.... this Mecca of consumption. The city of Angels.
What... are you?
Yes, I'm sure they do. This place is everything you said it was, Amilyn.
My parents have money...
So very much.
What's happening? What do you want?
I find it restorative, sleeping in the life-blood of so many. To feel their souls coursing about me.
You are much more.
I'm just a girl.
But as long as there have been vampire, there has been the Coven; the line of Slayers. Ones with the strength and the skill to kill them, to find them where they gather and stop the swell of their numbers. One dies, the next is called.
Ever since Adam and Eve first left the garden, he followed: the serpent. Satan. He sends his legion in the shape of men, to feed on us, to breed his Hell on our earth. They are a plague upon us.
I don't understand.
The mark of the Coven.
She has died. You are the next to be called. Why do you think you were sent to me? Trained as you were? You bear the mark.
Why? Why me?
You know you must. There is only one. Now you are that one. It is time.
Listen, you little worm. I could beat your head to a pulp for you, just like I did last year, you got that? You got that?
You think so?
What are you grinning at? You think I was scared?
Bessel! What are you doing here?
I heard she got straight A's.
She didn't even hardly talk to anyone in school. All year. She didn't even go to the prom.
Okay, let's go.
Well, I'm done. Are you done?
Make me a woman! Yes! Make me a woman!
Oh, yes! Yes!
Okay, what else?
Write that down.
She was even crazier after that. I mean it, you wouldn't even have recognized her.
And Spring Fling.
Throw it out.
I got all the plastic stuff. What should I do with it?
Probably was. What do you suppose she was doing out there.
Well, I hope so.
So they found Cassandra's body out by the railway tunnels. Nobody's saying anything, but they think she was involved in something, like, illegal or something. Like dealing.
Where'd you learn how to do that?
I can't believe they still ate it.
Does Jeffrey know?
What is she...
I gotta bail. You coming?
I never thought of that.
Well, that's the thing. She landed on her feet. Didn't even sprain a toe. And I go up to her and she turns and looks at me and she's like this --
Oh, my God! Ouch! No wonder you quit.
Snapped. Buffy was, you know, on the upswing, and I swear to God she went across the room. Perm over heels.
Buffy was on the uneven parallels -- she was really good; coach said she could have been in the Olympics -- but she was doing a routine, spinning, and the beam broke.
Nee sitch. No way.
You want some punch?
They'll kill us!
Hey, wait a minute...
Pike isn't a name. It's a fish.
I'm sorry. I'm Pike. This is Benny.
The don't. You kind of wish they would, though.
As long as there's room for three in it. What, didn't you bring your new friends?
It's amazing what you can do with a parachute and some starch.
Okay! Look, Buffy. You want to play house with the unwashed masses, that's fine. But personally, I think you ought to spend a little time prioritizing. I really do.
And the January Semi-formal --
Except for Prom.
You know, just because you're having full-on wiggans doesn't mean you have to drag us into it. This isn't just any dance. It happens ot be the last dance of our last year.
So, we're stupid now?
You're so out of it. You've blown off cheerleading, you've blown off dance committee --
Like you've got a grip.
Oh, thank you very much.
Weird? You mean like you hanging out with that homeless, Poke? I saw you last night after the game.
What are you talking about?
I'm, like, yelling at her, 'What are you doing?' And she's going 'Jeffrey, Jeffrey!' Way mental.
Oh, please! When she ran onto the field in the middle of the game? Was that the most out-of-it thing ever, or did I blink?
I really was way way too too.
Seriously, Buffy. That look was way twisted. What were you thinking about?
Buffy, the ape-woman.
Smell of booze much.
Well, look who's here.
Can't they make exceptions? Maryanne Heinel? She's such a scud. Can't we have a Maryanne clause?
If we don't invite all the seniors we can't use the school funds, you know that.
Environment. That's cool with me.
Like we don't have rights too?
God! Take a chill lozenge.
He is so bald.
Hey. What should I do if I see Benny?
All right. Take care of yourself.
I don't think so.
Ah, you'll be coming back.
You should think about leaving, too, man. Sell this place... Something's going on here. I don't know. Something real weird.
No... You want me to give him a message?
Hey, have you seen Benny lately?
Where am I gonna find another mechanic stupid enough to work for my money?
I'm leaving, man. I'm bailing town. This place has gotten way too hairy.
What nasty bug crawled up your bungus and where the hell are you going?
Ebby Calvin Nuke LaLoosh--don't think too much.
I think I'm ready for the Show.
Neither will I.
I won't be needing these anymore.
Well I guess this is it.
How can I possibly thank you?
I gotta leave first thing in the morning.
Yeah, Skip, it's me. Jeez...Jeez...God...Jeez...
It's Skip, for you.
Crash says I gotta quit worrying about him--c'mon, honey, we got a lotta catching up to do--
--but you're father's in there!
Aw hell, let's have a quickie right here--
So am I. Nuke, honey, we need to talk--
I'm starting to understand what you're teaching me. I mean the panties and the nostrils and all that shit...I mean I'm getting it--
You don't have to...
I couldn't dump my old man but maybe later I can sneak away from him...
Oh--won't YOU come in?
I'd like you to meet my father.
I'll be back when we lose.
He said if I gave in to you I'd start losing again.
What'd he say?
Nuke! You got things all wrong! There's no relation between sex and baseball. Ask Crash.
You're exotic and mysterious and cute--that's why I better leave.
Cute?! I hate cute! Baby ducks are cute! I wanta be exotic and mysterious!
I think you're real cute.
Of course I'm seducing you for Godsakes, and I'm doing a damn poor job of it-- Aren't I pretty?
I knew it--you're seducing me!
I'm trying to play with your body!
No! You're playing with my mind!
Oh... Crash is a very smart man. Now c'mon, honey, give it a try.
He didn't mean it nasty. He said that gettin' lost and disappearing from the face of the earth was sometimes a good thing to do-- especially like that.
What a nasty thing to say.
Well--he calls it the Bermuda Triangle. He said a man can get lost in there and never be heard from again.
Yes I do...
Crash once called a woman's, uh-- pussy--y'know how the hair kinda makes a "V" shape?--
Sure. Unsnap my stockings.
I figure we could work on some fundamentals even if we don't make love.
I know what it is.
That's my leg.
I'm not gonna try to seduce you, sweetie...
You can't seduce me.
I'll tuck you in.
No, that's okay. All I need's a little nap.
How 'bout a back rub?
No, no, it was great.
I'm so proud of you and all the guys. Want some more soup?
Ebby Calvin "Nuke" LaLoosh--
Get over here.
Just till I lose.
You know what it feels like to throw a three hitter? We better not fuck.
Now don't go overboard, I look incredibly hot, right?
Not that. I mean the re-channeling of my sexual energy. Maybe we shouldn't make love for awhile.
Breathing through your pingala always works, honey--
Y'know, Annie, I been thinking if it works for one game, maybe it'll work for a whole buncha games.
Yes. And so is birth. Now look me in the eyes, Nuke-- You haven't been wearing my panties, have you?
Death is like spring training?
Oh don't be silly. Death is nothing to be scared of. It's just another way of living. It's just a fresh start--kinda like spring training.
God...I think I'm gonna be sick--
It's all the same thing.
I can't keep up with you. First you say sex is gonna make me a better pitcher--now no sex is gonna do it?!
Much better. Your delivery was fully integrated because you weren't thinking about it 'cause you were pissed off at me. This is progress.
How ya like that?
Gimme the God damn ball!
A little better.
How was that?
He's handled a lotta pitchers whose records were better than one and six.
If I throw too hard I'll hurt the kid.
You're patronizing me! I will not be patronized--
Right. Okay, fire a couple in there.
The pingala is the nostril used for throwing a baseball. And if you discover before a game you're in the wrong nostril, it's easy to switch.
I'm really beat. I need some serious "z's"--
The ida originates at the right testicle and terminates at the left nostril.
There are two important psychic conduits called the "pingala" and the "ida". The pingala starts with the left testicle and ends at the right nostril.
My right nostril?
The right nostril. Good.
Which nostril am I breathing through?
Just do what I say. Now, which nostril are you breathing through?
This in ridiculous. I'm a pro.
Good. Total exhaustion can be spiritually fabulous. Let's play catch.
Sorry. You look great. I'm totally exhausted.
What is this "I, I, I" stuff? You only talk about yourself? Aren't you glad to see me? Don't I look nice?
God I'm tired. What a trip I was lousy. I was worse than lousy. Everytime I pitched--it was like throwing gasoline on a fire. Kaboom. I--
They did when they were in the Carolina League.
Big League pitchers don't use these.
You've been pitching out of the wrong side of your brain. These'll help move things to the right side.
Jesus, Annie, I don't know--
They'll fit snugly against your balls in such a wonderful way that you'll start seeing things differently--plus they'll remind you of me which is better than thinking about those nasty hitters.
I want you to wear these on the road trip when you pitch.
There is a lot of things you never thought of, sweetie--now get some rest for tonight's game.
God, I never thought of that.
Y'know if you make it to the Bigs you could still become the host of Dance Fever. Baseball's a good stepping stone for things like that.
I wanted to be the host of Dance Fever, somethin' like that...
You can learn to like it.
Mmm, hmmm. You shoulda seen how many people came to the airport to see me off. When I got drafted first it was the happiest day of my Father's life. He likes baseball more than I do...
You see how nice things are when we go slow?
Yeah maybe you're right.
Would you rather me be making love to him, using your name, or making love to you, using his name?
You said "Crash".
Honey, don't ever listen to a woman when she's making love. They'll say the strangest things.
You said "Crash".
I didn't say "Crash". I said Nuke.
You mean Nuke. You said "Crash".
We all deserve to wear white.
Five hours. We both just know. Do you think I deserve to wear white?
No, no--I'm fine. Millie, how much time did you and Jimmy spend together before he proposed?
You should be at the game.
He's a virgin.
Omigawd, honey, I'm so happy for you.
Well, he fucks like he pitches. Sorta all over the place
Well let's get down to it, honey-- how was he?
That's better. Got the radar ready?
"I didn't get lured and I will take responsibility for my actions".
You didn't get "lured". Women never get lured. They're too strong and powerful for that. Now say it--"I didn't get lured and I will take responsibility for my actions".
I got lured.
--Millie, you've got to stay out of the clubhouse. It'll just get everybody in trouble.
I can do that, too.
I got a lotta time to hear your theories and I wanta hear every damn one of 'em...but right now I'm tired and I don't wanta think about baseball and I don't wanta think about Quantum Physics... I don't wanta think about nothing... I just wanta be.
You'd be great, just great... 'Cause you understand non-linear thinking even though it seems like baseball is a linear game 'cause of the lines and the box scores an' all--but the fact is that there's a spacious-"non-time kind of time" to it...
You think I could make it to the Show as a manager?
Not yet. It takes years of practice...
Yeah...you a witch?
Salem, Massachusetts? Where all the witches were?
There might be an opening for a manager at Salem next spring.
I'm quitting too. Boys, not baseball.
I quit. Hit my dinger and hung 'em up.
It doesn't work like that. God, you're gorgeous. Want to dance?
How come in former lifetimes, everybody was someone famous? How come nobody ever says they were Joe Schmo?
... so you see in a former lifetime I'm sure that I was Alexandria, the Czarette of Russia? What do you think?
I heard already.
I got released.
Whatta you mean "why not"? Are you gonna play forever?!
Well...I used to think that wasn't the worst thing in the world to look forward to. Lately I'm not so sure.
Are you gonna be waking up next to 20 year old ballplayers when you're 60?
It's true, It's true! Least it used to be true. It ain't possible that baseball's not enough anymore, is it, Crash?
I don't know if I'd go that far.
If you know where home plate is, then you know where 1st base is, and 2nd, and everything else-- 'cause they're always in the same place in relation to home. Don't you see? If you know where home plate is, then you know where everything else in the universe is!
What's so great about baseball?
Thurman Munson. He was covered with dirt and he was fighting with everybody--it was beautiful ... And he called the ump a cocksucker and got thrown out of the game even though it was an exhibition! So I stayed in the bleachers all spring and gradually came to understand what's so great about baseball.
I crossed the street--it was the New York Yankees spring training field--tok, tok, tok, was the sound of a ball hitting a bat-- and I sat in the warm bleachers to think about my mother... And I saw him.
I was raised in a Baptist church got dipped in the water when I was 5-- born again before kindergarten...by the time I was 10 I knew it was bullshit and at 15 I ran away from home...
God damn you--what is happening? Is there no man who'll have me? This is the weirdest season I ever saw--the Durham Bulls can't lose and I can't get laid!
Annie, I think you should leave.
I said when I think about you, I get wet.
--and as soon as we lose a game, he'll be back in your arms.
I'm ready for a complicated man.
I thought you wanted an "uncomplicated" boy?
Crash, I get wet just thinking about you.
I doubt that.
I don't imagine there's much I could teach you.
And now you wanta teach me?
I teach part time at the Junior College. What if I told you I was through with Nuke? He learned his lessons quickly and left me.
Who are you? Do you have a job?
I want you desperately!
And he's right! A ballplayer on a streak has to respect the streak. They don't happen very often. You know how hard this game is? If you believe you're playing well because you're getting laid or because you're not getting laid or because you wore red silk panties--then you are! And I still think Thomas Pynchon is full of shit.
He won't make love to me anymore.
I think of you and the "boy" all the time.
I want to be had.
You're gorgeous, God damn it! From the moment I first saw you I knew I had to have you. I had to have you!
Don't you think I'm pretty?
Aren't we all?
He' s confused--
Nuke won't go to bed with you, eh?
Crash...I want you.
I'm not a real batter. I'm a woman.
A batter has two tenths of a second to decide whether to swing--
You got me all confused.
Well, Annie, your place or mine?
Fact is you're afraid of meeting a guy like me 'cause It might be real so you sabotage it with some bullshit about commitment to a young boy you can boss around-- Great deal. You get to write self- indulgent little poems all winter about how hard it is to find a man even though you just sent him packing- So what do you really want? You wanta be a tragic woman figure wallowing in the bullshit of magic? Or do you want a guy?
Despite my love of weird metaphysics and my rejection of most Judao-Christian ethics, I am, within the framework of a baseball season, monogamous.
Your place or mine?
Oh no, I think it'd be great! The Sporting News should know about it.
247 home runs in the minors would be a dubious honor, if ya think about it.
Why not? If you hit twenty homers this year you'll be the all time minor league champ! The record's
Don't tell anybody.
But they're nice hips. I looked up your records-- You've hit 227 home runs in the minors. That's great!
You're pulling your hips out.
That's my job too.
Young men are uncomplicated. And he's not "dim". He's just inexperienced. My job is to give him "life-wisdom" and help him make it to the major leagues.
What'you see in that guy--he's dim, pretty boy. a young, wild,
I'm committed to Nuke for the season. You had your chance the other night.
So...Wanta make love?
But you were pulling your hips last night.
When you're hitting you shouldn't think about anything but hitting. But you shouldn't think about it too much. The trick is to use your brain to not use your brain.
I think Thomas Pynchon's a genius.
See my hips?
I'm not interested yet.
I'm not interested in a woman who's interested in that boy.
Wait, Crash--don't go--all I want is a date. I'm not gonna fall in love with you or nothin'.
Oh my... Don't leave...
I believe in the soul, the cock, the pussy, the small of a woman's back, the hanging curve ball, high fiber, good scotch, long foreplay, show tunes, and that the novels of Thomas Pynchon are self-indulgent, overrated crap. I believe that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone, I believe that there oughtta be a constitutional amendment outlawing astro-turf and the designated hitter, I believe in the "sweet spot", voting every election, soft core pornography, chocolate chip cookies, opening your presents on Christmas morning rather than Christmas eve, and I believe in long, slow, deep, soft, wet kisses that last for 7 days.
What do you believe in?
After 12 years in the minor leagues, I don't tryout. Besides-- I don't believe in, Quantum Physics when it comes to matters of the heart...or loins.
Actually none of us on this planet ever really choose each other. It's all Quantum Physics and molecular attraction. There are laws we don't understand that bring us together and break us apart.
Why do you get to choose? Why don't I get to choose?
These are the ground rules. I hook up with one guy a season-- I mean it takes me a couple of weeks to pick the guy--kinda my own spring training... And, well, you two are the most promising prospects of the season so far. So... I thought we should get to know each other.
I'll learn. C'mon--
Crash, I didn't think you--
She's dancing with me.
I don't trust a man who don't dance. It ain't natural.
I don't dance.
Annie Savoy. Wanta dance?
I'm Crash Davis.
Oh no--he's shaking off the sign, Jackson. Big mistake...
He looks wonderful, Jackson...
Ninety-three miles an hour.
That's not necessary, Jackson--- Okay, Nuke, now lean in for the sign.
Hum, babe, hum, babe, fire it in here, hum babe--
Ninety-five miles an hour...
Oh dear....easy honey...
It says he's not bending his back on his follow-through.
What's it say?
Take this to Ebby in the dugout between innings.
He looks great, just great!
Ninety-five miles an hour.
Three-fourteen? Hmmm... Look't those thighs, Jackson
Jose Galindo. He hit .314 at Lynchburg last year.
Number twenty-two's thighs are just great. Who's he?
She will, Mr. LaLoosh, she will ...
God bless you.
Oh let's not...
Let's have a quick word of prayer, right here, to thank the Lord for all this--
Praise the Lord, eh?
We were worried that Ebby might get involved with the wrong crowd in professional baseball--we're so pleased, he met a Christian woman.
He's a good student.
Uh oh... Can I offer you some coffee?
Ebby's told me a lot about you.
Shh, shh... "They will not let me off till I go with them, respond to them, and discorrupt them and charge them"
We gonna fuck or what?
Good--then listen. "I sing the body electric. The armies of those I love engirth me and I engirth them--"
Never heard of 'em.
Well, he sort of pitches for the Cosmic All-Stars.
Who's he play for?
Sweetie, have you ever heard of Walt Whitman?
You think Dwight Gooden leaves his socks on?
The socks? It's cold in here.
No, no, honey... first the shoes and socks.
When you know how to make love, you'll know how to pitch. Shh. I love this part.
Jesus, what kinda broad are you?
No, no, no. Put it back on and take it off slowly.
Well shit, then, let's fuck.
No ballplayer ever said "no" to a date with me.
You're a regular nuclear meltdown, honey--slow down.
Is somebody gonna go to bed with somebody or what?
Oh both of you, of course...
Which one of us?
Well--you boys stopped fighting yet? Are you pals now? Good. I love a little macho male bonding-- I think it's sweet even if it's probably latent homosexuality being "re-channeled" but I believe in "re-channeling" so who cares, right? Shall we go to my place?
That's what I been telling everybody! Wanta dance?
You need a nickname.
Ebby Calvin LaLoosh.
You got a live arm there.
Thanks for the note--you're right, I wasn't bending my back.
C'mon, God damn it, gimme some!
No, that is not belief. That is desperation.
I'm 0 for 16! Gimme some of that shit.
If you believe in Voodoo.
Will that work for me?
Yes. A switch hitting witch. Very common in Puerto Rico.
You a God damn witch?
Chicken bone cross take the curse off this bat and bring me hits.
You're outta here!
You're a cocksucker!
Call me a cocksucker and you're outta here!
Beg me again!
Call me a cocksucker and you're outta here!
Try it! Go ahead. Call me a cocksucker!
You want me to call you a cocksucker?!
You're close, Crash, you want me to run you? I'll run you!
You're in the wrong business, Jack--you're Sears-Roebuck material!
I didn't spit on you!
You spit on me!
You missed the tag!
No! I said It was a cock-sucking call and you can't run me for that!
Did you call me a cocksucker?
It was a cocksucking call!
Don't bump me.
God damn It, Jack, he still ain't touched the plate.
You missed him!
I got him on the knee!
Nuke-- Good luck.
Yeah, thanks for everything.
It's the best, Nuke...the absolute fucking best.
Maybe you do. Y'know I'm starting to like this game--baseball's a helluva good way to make a living.
I don't need a crazy woman in my life.
Well, I got Annie all warmed up for ya... She's just waiting for you to show up, y'know...
I know. I just like to see you get all worked up.
No. Fear and arrogance, you, hayseed, not ignorance!
Fear and ignorance.
You will. Look, Nuke--these Big League hitters are gonna light you up like a pin ball machine for awhile-- don't worry about it. Be cocky and arrogant even when you're getting beat. That's the secret. You gotta play this game with fear and arrogance.
I have been known, on occasion, to howl at the moon. D'you understand that?
Sorry about last night.
If ya get in a fight with some asshole, never hit his with your pitching hand. ya might get injured. That's another lesson for ya--now quit fucking around and help me up.
Good. Good. That's terrific...
Nuke...tell me something. Did you hit me with your right or your left?
You know what the difference Is between hitting .250 and hitting .300? 1 got it figured out. Twenty-five hits a year in 500 at bats is 50 points. Okay? There's 6 months in a season, that's about 25 weeks--you get one extra flare a week--just one--a gork, a ground ball with eyes, a dying quail-- just one more dying quail a week and you're in Yankee Stadium!
I'll take you back to the hotel.
Okay, I'll kick your ass there.
Come over here into the light so I can kick your ass.
You're a great catcher.
Why are you a fuck? 'Cause you got talent. I got brains. But you got talent! You're God damn left arm is worth a million dollars a year. All my limbs put together are worth 7 cents a pound--and that's for science and dog meat.
Why am I a fuck?
C'mon, we got nothin' to fight about.
God damn it, you fucking virgin prick--step outside.
I don't wanta fight you, I wanta thank you. Let's have a drink and forget this--
C ' mon!
Let go of me!
I'm trying to thank you.
I'm going to the Show.
Shut up. I'm playing. Oh you won't regret it, young girls don't forget it, lost in their own wilderness ... But it's all so easy--Just try a little tenderness...
Club's expanding its roster to finish the season--
Hey, guys, I got a game to pitch.
Anybody says anything bad about Millie, I'll break his neck.
I'm nervous--my old man's here.
You outta your mind? If you give in now you might start losing. Never fuck with a winning streak.
She's getting steamed 'cause I'm still re-channeling my sexual energy--maybe I should cave in and sleep with her once just to calm her down. What'ya think?
Yep. So how's Annie?
"...Good Lord willing, things'll work out."
Write, write--"I just wanta give It my best shot and, Good Lord willing, things'll work out."
Of course. That's the point. "I'm just happy to be here and hope I can help the ballclub."
Write this down. "We gotta play 'em one day at a time."
Learn your cliches. Study them. Know them. They're your friends.
What do I gotta do?
It's time you started working on your interviews.
I love winning, Crash, you hear me? I love It. Teach me everything.
Yep. He really crushed that dinger, didn't he. Musta gone 450 feet...damn...
You told him I was throwing a deuce, right?
You're the boss.
It'll keep the fear of God in the hitters. Trust me.
Why?! I'm finally throwin' the damn thing where I want to.
I want you to throw this one at the bat rack.
Hey, I'm cruisin', man--what're you doing out here?!
The moment's over. If this guy starts me off with a breaking ball, I'm going downtown--
Can't you let me enjoy the moment?
Your fastball was up and your curveball was hanging--in the Show they woulda ripped you.
I was great, eh?
Annie's a smart lady.
Annie says her panties will keep one side of my brain occupied while I'm on the mound, thus keeping my brain slightly off center, which is where it should be for artists and pitchers. She also said I should throw whatever pitches you call for.
I know, I know--I have that dream all the time. We're almost home.
I was playing naked.
If he had a good breaking ball, I'd respect the shit outta him.
What would you think of a pitcher who wore women's panties?
Can I ask you something?
God--what a Big League move.
Party without me.
I won't have to.
If I get laid, you won't tell Annie?
Go for it.
You're weird, man--I want a ice skater real bad.
I just wanta play everyday despite small nagging injuries--and go home to a woman who appreciates how full of crap I truly am.
You're through with one night stands?! What do you want?
By the dozen. Holiday on Ice, Ice Capades, Ice Follies-- I'm through with one night stands.
"Naw"? There's ice skaters coming! You ever made love to an ice skater?
This is from Tony for the rainout. C'mon, man, let's go to the party.
God damn it I'm sick of you calling me "Meat"! You wanta step outside!
You could be one of those guys-- but you don't give a fuck, Meat.
You been in the Majors?
You don't need a quadraphonic Blaupunkt--you need a curve ball. In the Show, everybody can hit the fastball.
I ain't pissing nothing away--I got a Porsche already. A 944 with A.C. and a quadraphonic Blaupunkt.
You got a Hall of Fame arm but you're pissing it away.
A gift. When you were a baby the gods reached down and turned your left arm into a thunderbolt.
What do I got?
'Cause you don't respect yourself, which is your problem, but you don't respect the game--and that's my problem. You got a gift.
How come you don't like me?
Oh she may get wooly, women do get wooly, because of all the stress...
I told him.
He did know.
I'm having a blast. God, that sucker teed off on it just like he knew I was gonna throw a fastball.
An' he scrambled the son of a bitch. Having fun yet?
Well, I held it like an egg.
Guy hit the shit outta that one, eh?
Why's he always call me "Meat"? I'm the guy driving a Porsche.
Awright, meat, give him your heat.
But he ain't seen my heat--
"To announce your fucking presence with authority"? This guy's a first ball fastball hitter. He's looking for heat.
I wanta throw the heater to announce my presence with authority.
Why you shaking me off?
Shake off the pitch. Throw what you wanta.
Fun? What's he know about fun? Why's he calling for a curveball? I wanta bring heat.
I thought I was--
Drive off your back leg. You pitch with your legs as much as your arms-
Now, Nuke, would I do a thing like that? Hey kids, this is the great Ebby Calvin "Nuke" LaLoosh.
Hey! What're you guys doing here-- stealing my girl?
Crash, shut the door.
Yeah, Skip, you wanted to see me?
What're you thinking about out here, Nuke?
I don't know. I haven't caught anything yet.
You can keep going to the ballpark and keep gettin' paid to do it. Beats hell outta working at Sears.
And where can I go?
We want you to room with him on the road and stay on his case all year. He can go all the way.
'Cause of Ebby Calvin LaLoosh. The Big Club's got a hundred grand in him-
I'm too old for this shit. Why the hell am I back in "A" ball?
The Crash Davis. ) And you, Larry Hockett, should recognize me 'cause five years ago in the Texas League when you were pitching for El Paso and I was hitting cleanup for Shreveport, you hung a curve on an 0-2 pitch of a 3-2 game in bottom of the 8th and I tattooed it over the Goodyear Tire sign, beat you 4-3-- and I got a free wheel alignment from Goodyear.
See ya at the yard, Meat.
Who you calling a "boy"?
It's a damn easy thing to play with.
She's playing with my mind.
Shut up--I like this song... April in Paris, this is a feeling, No one can ever reprieve...
We fight, she gets the clown-- how's that happen?
C'mon, Meat. You can't hit me 'cause you're starting to think about it already, you're starting to think how embarrassing it'll be to miss, how all these people would laugh. C'mon, Rook--show me that million dollar arm 'cause I'm getting a good idea about the five cent head--
Throw it. C'mon, right in the chest.
Don't try me.
From what I hear you couldn't hit a bull in the ass with a slingshot
I'd kill ya.
Hit me in the chest with this...
I ain't hitting a man first.
Take the first shot at me.
I don't believe in fighting.
Step outside, pal.
If it makes you and mom feel better, go for it. I gotta run--
We'll pray anyway.
Dad--if my curveball is hanging, God ain't gonna help me.
We'll be praying for you.
No. If I screw up, I wanta do it alone. I'll call.
I was thinking I could fly up and spend a week in the Big Leagues with you--help you get comfortable.
I gotta go now, Dad.
We're getting married.
Well tell 'em, honey.
You can do anything you want. Hop in.
Can I give you my testimony?
Have you accepted Jesus Christ as your personal savior?
Hi, Jimmy. Want a ride?
I put in a word for you with the organization--told 'em I thought you'd make a fine minor league manager someday...Might be an opening at Salem next year--
Some kid hittin' .300 in Lynchburg ...probably a bust.
The organization wants to make a change...now that Nuke's gone they wanta bring up some young catcher...
Check it out.
It's a damn convention.
What the hell's going on out there?
He said his chakras were jammed and he was breathing out of the wrong nostril.
Nuke's overthrowing tonight, he don't look loose. Anything bothering him?
I'm getting too old for this game.
I heard he's wearing women's underwear--and he's breathing through his pingala nostril.
Jesus--what's got into Nuke?
...and one helluva guy.
Patkin was a tribute to baseball...
Look, guys--I'm a man, I got needs too. I understand this party-- but... sex is the one thing you can get further behind in and catch up faster than anything I know. There's a baseball lesson in there somewhere. Where's Crash?
It's a miracle.
Eight and twenty-four! How'd we ever win 8 games?
Eight and twenty-four.
Eight and sixteen?! How'd we ever win eight? Jose, what's this sign?
We're eight and sixteen.
You guys lollygag the ball around the infield, ya lollygag you're- way to first, ya lollygag in an' outta the dugout. You know what that makes ya Lollygaggers. What's our record, Larry?
Even if it's the Carolina League-- this is a chance to play everyday.
Sears sucks, Crash, I tried it once. Sold Lady Kenmores--it's nasty, nasty work.
You been around, you're smart, you're professional, you know what it takes-- We want you to mature the kid.
But he ain't quite sure which plane he's on, y'know what I mean...
--we had the gun on him tonight-- the last five pitches he threw were faster than the first five. 96 miles an hour, 98, 97, 97. 97. He's got the best young arm I've seen in 30 years.
He's got a million dollar arm and a five cent head.
I'm Joe Riggins. Sit down
Ohyeah. I shoulda throwed a slider. Damn, Crash, how're ya?
League record. And he hit the Radio Announcer, a Sportswriter, and the Bull Mascot twice--also league records-- Joe, the guy's got some serious shit.
Struck out eighteen...
It's a league record.
He walked eighteen?!
C'mon big 'un, you're okay...
Better find our bonus baby, eh?
No. The guy's professional debut and he forgets about it.
Ain't he warning up?
Your breaking ball's getting better but ya need a change up.
I'm Nuke LaLoosh. With the Bulls.
Looking for Crash Davis.
Jim looking for somebody.
What'you want, kid?
Don't tell him I told you--he'd break my neck.
He goes to a whorehouse every night?
Goddamn, that's great! Jesus! Listen, Crash don't like anybody to know it but-- Most nights he goes down to, you know, down to Niggertown. To Sandy's... the whorehouse.
They called me up to the Show and I wanta tell Crash goodbye.
Well, I'd rather not say.
Where does he go?
Crash ain't there. He never gets back till four or five--
Now, instead of the cops only lookin' at Nicky, they started looking at Green too. And he was supposed to be our squeaky...
I'm a little in shock, quite frankly...
Why are you doing this to me?
It turned out Phil Green, Mr Integrity, had a partner nobody knew about... and when she showed up and started demanding some money from the Tangiers...
I can't believe you're doing this.
...was gonna stop what came up next at the casino.
It's like everything else in this place. You don't do it yourself, it never gets done.
What are you talking about?
Look at that. Look at this. There's nothin'... look how many blueberries your muffin has and how many mine has. Yours is falling apart. I have nothing.
Look at yours.
Phil, I can understand. You're in the finances, you're upstairs, but you are not on the floor. I got thousands of players. I got five hundred dealers. They're all lookin' to rob me blind, twenty-four hours a day. I have to let them know I'm watching all the details, all the time; that there is not one single thing I will not catch as I am over here.
This is his state. His uncle's Chief Judge. His brother-in-law runs the County Commission. I don't know how many other relatives he's got in town. There's gotta be a way to work him back in.
So what? Everybody out here with cowboy boots is a fuckin' county commissioner or related to a county commissioner. I'm fuckin' sick of it.
But you can't just fire him. Webb's his brother-in-law. He's County Commissioner.
I mean, the guy is history as far as I'm concerned. History.
...he did what he was told.
Yes, you were.
You know damn well I was at that dinner, and you swore to me that I would have a fair hearing at that dinner! Did you not?! Did you not?! Well, tell me I was at least at the dinner! A-allow me that much. Give me that much at least!
I was in the building!
You were in the m- You were in the building.
Was I at that dinner?
You were wandering around.
Was I at that dinner?
You were wandering around.
Was I at that dinner?
You were wandering around.
Was I at that dinner? Just tell me -
The only time I was at the Tangiers was when I had dinner with Barney Greenstein.
Mr Rothstein is being very typical to this point.
Uh, I - I'd... I'd like to answer - answer that at this time.
I never comped you?! I don't comp you at least two or three times a month at the Tangiers?!
You were never my guest?!
I was never - I was never your guest at the Tangiers.
Good to see ya. William would you...
Hey, I need a room. Need a room.
I can't do that.
I would forget about the maneuver. I would just get out.
All right, look, if he took a break, it would just give everybody some time to maneuver. That's all I'm saying. It's all that I'm saying.
They ain't sendin' Nicky nowhere.
I don't know, he doesn't listen to me. Maybe he should... get lost for a while. Take a vacation. Would that be so bad?
What do you propose?
Know what my problem is? Every time they mention my name in the papers, these cocksuckers, they mention Nicky, too. How the fuck does that help? I mean, the heat he brought down is murder! We had a police department who was cooperative. He's pissed them off so much now that nobody can make a move anymore. I mean, what do you do about that?
The old man said, 'Maybe your friend should give in.' And when the old man says 'maybe', that's like a papal bull. Not only should you quit, you should run!
Walk away? Andy, you can't be serious. How can I walk away? Don't you see what's goin' on here? Don't you see what's at stake?
These guys back home don't give a fuck about the Supreme Court and any of this bullshit! They want things to quiet down. They want you to walk away from -
First of all, what they did was totally unconstitutional. We're already on the list to be heard before the Supreme Court of the United States later this year.
It's a pity in this...
He's on all night, screamin' about how he's gonna take his damn lawsuit all the way to the Supreme Court. He really must be crazy. He's gonna go to Washington with this? He's out of his fuckin' mind.
Nobody's gonna interfere with your running the casino. I guarantee it.
I'm serious. No interference.
You got it.
It's a tough proposition, Andy. You, you know, if I did it, I'd have to run it my way.
Why would they want to find out? We're puttin' a hundred million into this desert here. Why would they want to lock us out? And besides, they'll never find out. All you gotta do is keep changing your job title. Like, uh, from Casino Executive to Food and Beverage Chairman. And what happens it, they take your application, they put it at the bottom of the pile. I know guys workin' there for thirty years, don't have a license.
But what happens when they do find out?
You don't have to have a license to work in a casino. All you gotta do is apply for one. The state law says you can work in a casino while they're processing your application. They got a ten-year backlog.
...this check for $62,700,000 for the new Tangiers.
But Andy also took orders. And when he was told to give a pension fund loan to Philip Green...
On behalf of the Teamsters' Pension Fund, it is my pleasure to present to you . . .
He even played golf with the President.
Philip, if you would rise.
A powerful man.
This is a very auspicious occasion.
As far as the world was concerned Andy Stone, the head of the Teamsters' Pension Fund, was a legitimate guy.
Look, look. You can't stop her for speeding? I mean, look what the hell she's doing.
Hold on a second.
Wait, hold on a second.
All right, take care.
Okay, Randy. Thank you.
Not bad, not bad. In fact, uh, my wife's pregnant again.
Fine, fine. How's your family?
No, it's - it'll just be a couple of minutes. We got other things to do too, you know. He'll hurry her up. How's everything else besides this?
Yeah, I don't want her in there more than a few more minutes.
...I will let her in the house for five minutes if you gentlemen will escort her out if she happens not to want to leave. Because I don't - I -
No, you're not calm.
Jesus Christ! What gun? He's got a fuckin' hero sandwich here.
...been right, but who knows?
The worst was Blue.
Watch it, partner, watch it!
I mean, Frank Marino was there to meet him, but so were the cops. This time they wanted to pinch him for some diamond burglary in Antwerp.
Even after a little vacation, they hassled him at the airport.
You got it. Schmuck. All right. I just bought us a few minutes. Want to get back at this prick?
I'll call you right back.
Mm-hm. 1862. Okay, good. I'll call you right b-
702 472 1862.
So, l-l-l-listen, I te- I te- I tell you - can I call you back in a few minutes?
Sam, I - I don't know where she is, okay?
You understand? Put her on the fuckin' phone.
Uh, I'm not. Sam, I wouldn't...
I know she's there. Don't fuck around with me.
...listen to me very carefully. I want to talk to Ginger. I want my kid back. I want her put on a plane immediately.
She's not here, Sam.
...Rothstein. I want to talk to Ginger. Put her on the phone.
Yeah, is this Lester? This is Sam...
Hey, little Dale Evans.
M- Uh, Mr. and Mrs. Rothstein?
Hey, that's just fuckin' - That's bullshit. You know, you know, what the fuck?
You fuckin' piece of shit.
You do? Yeah? Well, if you ever come back again... ever... to take her money... next time bring a pistol. That way you got a chance. Be a man, don't be a fuckin' pimp. Now, you want to do me a favor? Get out of here. I want to be alone with my wife. Get the fuck up and get out of here.
Yeah, yeah. I know that.
She's my wife. Look at me. You did know that, didn't you? You knew that she's my wife? Huh? Hey, look at me.
He was a moocher, a card cheat, a country-club golf hustler. A scumbag... chasing dentists for a few bucks.
Look, Gin, you know I got other people in this. I got partners. But I want you to understand that I am lookin' out for you in this thing. Okay? You're going to get yours back... and you're gonna get it back first. Okay?
But one thing I could never understand, was that she could have everything under control, except for her old pimp boyfriend, Lester Diamond.
No, tha-that's good. It's just unusual. To tell you the truth, so many of my clients don't.
Yeah, sure I do. Why?
Sam, let me ask you a question. You must really trust your wife.
So, once she signs those papers, she'll be the only person to have total access to the box? No one else, including myself?
Now this is just a signature card.
I don't know.
You don't know? What time did your mother do this? When did she leave?
I don't know.
When did this happen, honey?
Oh, no, please, please.
I'm gonna get a knife and cut you loose, honey, I'll -
What happened? What happened? Who did this to you?
I can't! I'm tied!
Amy! Amy, open the door!
Hello? Hello! Ginger.
Oh. Have a good day at school.
Hey, be fuckin' nice. Calm. Be nice. Don't fuck up in here.
Yeah? Nicky, I want to talk to that fuckin' bitch.
She didn't know who to turn to. She... she didn't know where to turn. She was tryin' to save your marriage.
I want to just talk. I want to talk to that Irish bitch.
Ace don't... listen, don't... don't make a scene, all right?
I'll be right there.
Yeah, she's here.
She's there with you? She's there with you?
Yeah? Well, listen, Ginger's over here at the Leaning Tower with me.
...Ginger's missing and she tied Amy up and she locked her in her room. I gotta find her. I don't know where the hell she is.
...uh, you know, I just wanted to talk to you a minute.
How'd you know I was here?
No, I'm not okay.
Yeah, what are you doin'? You okay?
Yeah, uh, who's this?
Well, once you get her here, you think about it, you know? But get the kid back here. She wants to come back. That's the, uh, that's the main thing here. You want your kid, don't you? Huh?
She's driving me fuckin' crazy.
I think if you, uh, okay it, you know, assure her that she's gonna be all right, she'll come back.
I don't know. What am I gonna do with this woman? I don't know... She's drivin' me fuckin' crazy.
I know. Why didn't you come to me? I mean, this is family, it ain't business. Meanwhile, you make calls back home. Sammy, it makes us look bad out here, you know what I mean? Back and forth, this one and that one, and, in the meantime, she's gone anyway. Am I right?
Yeah, she's with that cocksucker again... and they got Amy.
She was afraid to call you.
And what'd she want?
I just told you. She called me.
Ginger called me.
I'm gonna okay you ten and get you even, and that's it. Then you got to get out of here before the cops and the newspapers are all over you.
Just give me the money. Fuckin' give me the fuckin' money, Sammy.
Nicky, Nicky, you're not listenin' to me. I'm here to help you. What's the matter with you? You're gonna bury us both.
Hey, Sammy, tell this Jew motherfucker over here to pay that marker.
What are you doin'? You gotta get out of here!
Get this through your head, you Jew motherfucker, you. You only exist out here because of me! That's the only reason! Without me, you, personally, every fuckin' wiseguy skell [Skell: the lowest form of wiseguy - a drunken bum] around'll take a piece of your fuckin' Jew ass! Then where you gonna go?! You're fuckin' warned! Don't ever go over my fuckin' head again! You motherfucker, you!
You never - ?
Back - Back up, back up a fuckin' minute here. One minute. I asked you?! When the fuck did I ever ask you if I could come out here?! Get this through your head, you -
...you? Do you remember what I told you?
No, it - it - Nicky, when you asked me if you could come out here, what did I tell you? I mean, you asked me, and I knew you were going to come out no matter what I said, but what did I tell you? Do you remember what I told...
Oh, sure. Now you want to blame your fuckin' license on me, is that it?
Me?! I wouldn't even be in this situation if it wasn't for you. You brought down so much fuckin' heat on me. I mean, every time I meet somebody here, the big question is do I know you.
You're makin' a big fuckin' spectacle of yourself.
Yeah, I did want to go on TV. That way I have a forum. I can fight back. I'm known. People see me. They know they can't fuck around with me like they could if I was an unknown. That's right.
Your fuckin' ass! You could have had the food and beverage job without goin' on television! You wanted to go on TV.
I'm only on TV because I gotta be able to hang around the casino. You understand that. You know that. Come on.
You know I get calls from back home every fuckin' day?! They think you went batshit!
What are you -
I'm what counts out here! Not your fuckin' country clubs or your fuckin' TV shows! And what the fuck are you doin' on TV anyhow?!
Oh, I don't know whether you know this or not, but you only have your fuckin' casino because I made that possible!
Yeah, I said I - let the bullshit blow over for a while so I can run the casino. Anything goes wrong with the casino, it's my ass. It's not yours, it's my ass.
You want me to get out of my own fuckin' town?!
I didn't do anything. I mean, I didn't order you or anybody... I only told Andy Stone that you had a lot of heat on you, and that was a problem.
No? You said I'm bringin' heat on you?! I gotta listen to people because of your fuckin' shit?! You're ordering me out?! You better get your own fuckin' army, pal!
I don't even know what you're talkin' about, Nick.
What people! What'd you think, I wasn't gonna find out?
Where the fuck you get off talkin' to people about me behind my back? Goin' over my head?
Don't ask questions. Just be there.
...hundred yards further down the road.
What - what, Caesar's?
Meet me at three.
And at the...
Practice enough this week, you prick?
...on the line and this guy's out havin' the time of his life. He has every cop in the state watchin' him, and he's out playin' golf.
The problem was, Nicky was not only bringin' heat on himself, but on me too. The FBI watched every move he made. But he didn't care. He just didn't care.
I see you, you motherfuckers.
Peekaboo, you fucks, you.
The coppers blamed me for everything that went wrong out here, and I mean every little fuckin' thing too.
Nicky was questioned in two dozen murders, but they always had to let him go. There were never any witnesses.
Nicky wanted to take over. He wanted to go after Gaggi, go after the skim, go after everything and everybody.
Fuckin' walking around with a big head. You better check yourself...
I knew what he wanted, and I didn't want any part of it.
Your fuckin' head is getting' bigger than your casino. That's your problem, pal.
This guy is gonna run to the FBI.
Yeah, that's right, the way you need me to vouch for you as a citizen and get you out of one of your jams. I'm gonna have to straighten out what you just did with this guy.
A week ago it was my business, now it's none of my business. In other words, when you need me to take care of somethin' for you, then you need me.
That's right, yeah.
It's none of my business?
Ju-just stay away from her. It's none of your business, okay? There are certain things you don't do, and you know that.
And I - what was I supposed to do, throw her out?
She came to talk to me...
...don't do it to me...
Hey, she came to talk...
I - I would appreciate it if you'd stay out of my personal life, okay? You wouldn't like it if I did it to you.
The point is that she's upset. She's - and you got a fuckin' problem.
Listen, I would -
No, I didn't. What good would that do? That's not the fuckin' point.
All of a sudden, you're the shoulder to cry on? Did you at least tell her about your little role in that whole situation?
Well, she comes to see me. She was upset about a lot of things, especially that whole fuckin' Diamond - that Lester Diamond incident.
Now, what does she have to do with all this?
You know, I didn't want to bring this up, but you have treating a lot of people with a lot of disrespect. Even your own wife.
...uh, uh, cigarette holder. I'm - I lost control?!
A fuckin' pink robe and a fuckin'...
Look at you. You're fuckin' walkin' around like John Barrymore.
Yes, you lost your control.
I lost control?
You lost your control.
What happened to me? What happened to you?
What the fuck happened to you? Will you tell me?
Every time you're on television I get mentioned. That looks bad. That looks bad.
Looks bad? I'm gonna tell you what looks bad.
Well, back home they don't know about fuckin' control. That looks bad.
I have no control over that. Ronnie and Billy were right there. They'll tell you exactly what happened.
Yeah, that's out of context. Okay.
That's all taken out of context. Okay.
You mean, quiet like this: 'I'm the boss.' That's quiet?
...okay? I just wanna run a square joint. That's it. I just want my license. I want everything nice and quiet. That's it.
I don't wanna be involved in anything you're talkin' about...
All right, fine.
I'll be honest with you.
Just say so.
I don't wanna come along with you.
You should say so.
No, I don't wanna come -
Yeah, forget about your fuckin' license. I plant my own flag out here, you ain't gonna need a fuckin' license. You know, I don't know what it is, Sammy, but the more I talk to you, the more I feel like you just don't wanna go along with me, is that it?
Listen, Nick, you gotta understand my situation. I'm responsible for thousands of people. I got a hundred million a year goin' through the place. It's all over, I'm gonna tell you, it's all over, if I don't get that license. And believe me, if it goes bad for me, it's gonna go bad for a lot of people, you understand?
Where's my head? Where's your fuckin' balls? Huh? You know I'm tryin' to put somethin' really big together out here. You know what I'm talkin' about, huh? You know! If you're actin' like this now, how can I depend on you? There's a lot of things gonna change out here. And if you wanna be there with me, Sammy, you're gonna have to go my fuckin' way.
I'm not tryin' to tell you what to do. But you were way out of line, Nick. What're you doin'? Where's your head?
Fuck the FBI! That prick's been dodging me for three weeks. And what is it with you? All of a sudden, you're tryin' to tell me what to do all the time.
What're you doin'? He's a square guy, for chrissakes. You can't treat him like that. He's gonna run to the FBI.
You think he got the point?
Well, it's okay. I'll use the service entrance. I'll see you at nine.
...very difficult to get in.
It's impossible. It's booked up, and you gotta make a reservation. It's...
No, no it's okay.
Here, let's put a little of this on for you. I know you like this. A little butter, right, not a lot?
- no matter where he was or what he was doing, he always went home to make breakfast for his son, Nicky- Boy.
Yeah, Nicky loved restaurants. He was a real restaurant buff. And over the years, he always made money with them.
I gotta do somethin'. I gotta do somethin'. They ain't gettin' rid of me. They're not gettin' rid of me. I'm staying here. Fuck 'em. Fuck 'em.
It just didn't sink into his head about the Black Book and what it meant. Not being able to go into a casino is just one thing, but being in this book etched your name into the brains of every cop and FBI agent in the state. I mean, you're listed in there with Al Capone. But Nicky didn't care.
In so many words, yes.
In other words, I'm fucked.
Forget it. You can't even set foot in the parking lot. That's how serious it is.
Let's say... for instance... I want to go in the restaurant which happens to be in the casino... to get one of those sandwiches I like?
Nope, there's no way.
Motherfucker. Unsavory fuckin'... Is there any way around this?
Yeah, I believe it. You got banned.
' ...detrimental to gaming. And he will be ejected from any casino in Las Vegas... and the casinos can be fined as much as a hundred thousand every time he shows up.' Do you believe this shit?
What the fuck is that supposed to mean?
Well, it wasn't long before what I was afraid was gonna happen, happened. Nicky managed to get himself banned from every casino in Las Vegas, and from then on, I couldn't be seen talkin' to him anywhere in Vegas, or even near it.
I'm just tellin' you. Don't say I didn't warn you.
What am I doin' out here? I'm tryin' to make a livin', that's all.
Bullshit or no bullshit, they put you in that book, you're gonna be in a lot of trouble. You will not be able to walk into the casino. I'm tellin' you.
That Black Book is a bunch of bullshit. They got two names in there for the whole country and one of them is still Al Capone.
I'm - I'm hearin' things from security. They're all ex-cops. The Sheriff's lookin' to bust your balls. They want to put you in the Black Book.
Why, somebody's complaining?
You better watch yourself. There's a lot of heat on you already.
Hey, I gotta give the guy credit. He does the most obvious thing. This is the only town in the country where a bookie joint is legit, so, why not take advantage, right? So... he took bookie joints off the street and then opened them up inside the casino. Well, within a few years, by doin' all of this, he had every casino on the Strip trying to copy off him.
You're still eight pounds over. What's the reason for this?
But I'll tell you, he knew how to bring in the crowds. He knew all the fuckin' angles. He brought over the whole 'Femme Fatale' show from Paris. But he forgot how lazy them European dancin' broads can get. I mean, he had to weigh 'em in once a week to make sure they didn't blow up like fuckin' balloons.
All right, Ace?
I'm sorry about this. Really.
If he does it again, he's out for good. I don't care what it is, Nick, I'm gonna ha- I'll - I'll never let him in the place again.
What? Ho- Hey, come here.
So what do you think I do? I threw that cocksucker out.
Then he called me a faggot.
...and he tells me to go fuck myself.
He insulted Billy. And then I walked over to him politely...
No, I didn't know that. But you know what he did?
You been lucky all week. They're lookin' to nail ya.
So, I'm lucky. I'm not allowed to get lucky in this place?
Be careful. Gaming agents are all over the place.
I mean, Nicky's a made guy and I'm not. I can't do that.
Four aces, Doc.
And I didn't want any of those agents near my place.
It was so obvious. I mean, all of Nicky's half-assed mechanics, they were real signal happy.
...the next thing I did, I started bustin' out high-stakes poker players.
To begin, I put money out on the streets, chargin' three points a week. You know - juice to the fuckin' dealers.
...Nicky was dreamin' his own kind of Vegas.
It was typical Ace. He invited the biggest people in town and he knew they'd show. Because he knew they all wanted somethin' from him. With Ace, nobody ever got a free ride. Even Ginger. With her -
When I married Ginger I knew all the stories, but I didn't give a fuck. 'I'm Sam Rothstein,' I said. 'I can change her.'
Me? That's why the bosses sent me out here. They wanted me to make sure none of the other crews robbed the joint. Like these two fuckin' balloon-heads over here [EDDY and JERRY]. They were gonna try and bang us out of two hundred fuckin' grand? Yeah, right, I'm sure.
Especially at the casino, where he definitely did not work, people got the message.
And, Nicky being Nicky, he made his presence known.
Yeah, he had a fool-proof scheme, all right. It wasn't very scientific but it worked. When he won, he collected. When he lost, he told the bookies to go fuck themselves. What were they gonna do? Muscle Nicky? Nicky was the muscle.
But I saw it another. I saw it as untouched. I mean, they had bookies, pimps and drug dealers I could shake down. Who the fuck were they gonna run to? So, I started getting everybody in line. Best of all, for the first time in my life, I figured out a way not to lose.
Don't worry about it. I'm not gonna do anything. What am I gonna do? I'm especially not gonna involve you in anything.
Nick, I gotta tell you, I got pinched twice for no reason. You really gotta be careful. I'm running a licensed place. Everything's legit.
I don't care. I want to get away from back home for a while. I'm tired of that shit back there. Look at this place. It's made of money. You know what the best part is? Nobody's gonna know what we're doin'! There's nobody here to see us! Everybody's back home.
Sure, you have my permission. But I - I just gotta tell you it's no joke out here. It's no joke, you know? You gotta keep a low profile. It's not like back home. Right off the bat, they don't like guys like us. And this sheriff's a real cowboy. Even the coppers aren't afraid to bury people out in the desert here.
You mean, I have your permission?
No, of course not.
What do you think about me movin' out here? What's the matter? You got a problem with that?
After we ate, we left Jennifer and Ginger alone and we took a ride to talk. And then... he hit me with it.
Honey, come here.
Holy shit, what've you been doin' out here?
...nobody interfered with the fuckin' skim.
I mean, he took care of himself only too well. And that's why every badge back home wanted to nail him.
You find any cash in there, we'll whack it up with you.
But nobody had to take care of Nicky.
While I was tryin' to figure out why the guy was sayin' what he was sayin', Nicky just hit him. No matter how big a guy might be, Nicky would take him on. You beat Nicky with fists, he comes back with a bat. You beat him with a knife, he comes back with a gun. And you beat him with a gun, you better kill him, because he'll keep comin' back and back until one of you is dead.
Wait a sec, Nicky, Nicky, Nicky. Ta- take it easy.
What's that? You hear? You hear a little girl, Frankie? You hear a little girl, Ace? Is that a little fuckin' girl?! What happened to the fuckin' tough guy? Told my friend stick it up his fuckin' ass?! Huh?! Huh?!
If he don't know, nobody knows. Told you it was eight.
It was eight. Ace... tell him the line on the Bear's game.
How did Nicky collect?
Yeah, we made a great pair. I made book and Nicky made sure we always collected. The old men loved us. And why not? They all made money with us.
If his girlfriend was knocked up.
I'll take Columbia for twenty.
Place the checks properly. That's the way you do it.
He bet like a fuckin' brain surgeon.
Where the hell did you learn how to deal?
You know, havin' some fun with it, shit like that.
You know, I don't know if I could do this even if I wanted to. The Gaming Commission would never give me a license. I have at least two dozen gambling and bookmaking pinches on me.
...give him a shot at runnin' a casino and he tries to talk you out of it.
Got a lot of holes in the desert, and a lot of problems are buried in those holes. Except you gotta do it right. I mean, you gotta have the hole already dug before you show up with a package in the trunk. Otherwise you're talkin' about a half-hour or forty-five minutes of diggin'. And who knows who's gonna be comin' along in that time? Before you know it, you gotta dig a few more holes. You could be there all fuckin' night.
But it's in the desert where lots of the town's problems are solved.
Matter of fact...
...by the only kind of guys that can actually get you that kind of money: sixty-two million, seven-hundred thousand dollars. I don't know all the details.
No problem. Sorry.
Mr Rothstein. Your people never will understand the way it works out here. You're all just our guests. But you act like you're at home. Let me tell you somethin', partner... you ain't home. But that's where we're gonna send you if it harelips the Governor. Thank you for your time.
Okay, thanks. Um... you know, that's it. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, I can't do anything. He's too incompetent. And the bottom line is, he cannot be trusted.
Well, could there be any position... further down the trough?
I can't do that. And I appreciate the fact that he's your brother-in- law, and I do want to help you and I like to do favors, and I know who you are, but I cannot do that.
You have got me there. Old Don is as useless as tits on a boar. But, he is my brother-in-law, and I would look on it as a personal favor if you'd think some more on hirin' him back.
I think you're way out of line talkin' to me like that. What you're sayin' is libelous, and you're in no position to challenge my expertise. I went way out of my way to be very helpful and courteous to that kid. He's weak, he's incompetent. He jeopardizes the whole place. There's not much more I can do for him.
Are, uh - - are we certain that you want the Gamin' Control Board eyeballin' your record and your gangster pals like Nicky Santoro?
Believe me, if I could prove it, he would be under arrest.
Before we point the dirty end of the stick at 'ol Don, uh, we better be sure we can prove them charges.
I'm sorry, but he knew about our gettin' hit on three big machines in a row and he did nothing about it. That means either he was in on it or, forgive me for saying this, he was too dumb to see what was going on. Either way, I cannot have a man like that workin' here.
Uh, I come here personally to kind of smooth over a fracas about a certain matter. See, uh, maybe you didn't know it, but, uh, Don Ward is a very well-liked man in this town. He's got lots of friends here. Now, his family and their money go back many, many years. Now, friends vote... family and money votes. That's important to me... and you. And if you'll think about our little problem along them lines... and you forgive me for sayin' it, maybe he did not deserve to be fired.
No, that's quite all right.
Hey, house is doin' well. Hey, all that money is rollin' in. I appreciate you takin' the time to see a poor ol' civil servant.
Oh, thank you, sir.
Yeah, I heard a lot about you.
Hey, it is my pleasure.
How do you do?
Mr Rothstein... I'm Pat Webb.
I'll come by.
Okay. You come by the house?
Well, it's a little too early. I'd say Thursday would be good. I'll know by then. Is that all right?
You see? Never tells me nothin'. Ace, what do we got on for next week?
Well, that's why they paid so well.
Son-of-a-bitch. How the hell did you get Oklahoma-Michigan? Nobody ever had Oklahoma-Mi... How the hell'd you do it?
Hello, Jennifer, it's Sam -
Next morning bright and early, I get the call.
Let's go to lunch. Do you want to go to the Riviera?
...as soon as Andy got back home, Nicky heard about our talk in the car.
You know, I don't feel like playin' tennis.
Good to meet you.
This is Jennifer and Nick. They're dear friends of mine.
All right, we're clear.
I mean, that's what worried me, 'cause it turns out Nicky was about to be sent to Vegas.
Come on. There we go. Look at that. Beautiful.
Because Nicky enjoyed being a gangster, and he didn't give a damn who knew it.
And they were usually right.
You go and put your things away.
They were ready to blame him for anything, no matter where it happened.
Oh, yes. Will you help me fold these, please?
Half - I'm comin' down.
Ace, listen to me.
Half of everything is mine.
Legally, she can't take that stuff. Legally, she can't take the stuff.
She's a fuckin' junkie. She's out of her fucking mind. Do you unders-
What can I do?
You've got to stop her.
I-I'm sorry, Sam.
Charlie, you've gotta - you've gotta stop her!
Yeah, refill'd be great.
Want something to drink? Charlie you want a refill?
No. Just stop everything.
It's always been our policy -
That's right. She will get fired. In fact, I want you to send her back to Paris.
But, sir. Well, I don't know why. I guess, maybe, because she's frightened that if she doesn't lose the weight she may even get fired.
...all you do is give me answers. Just - just give me the right answer.
...and she doesn't always -
She could at least lose half a pound or a quarter. Listen...
Mr Rothstein... well, sometimes, when you reach that pressure point, when you put that pressure point on them, you know, it shows...
'Mr Rothstein' is good enough.
...trying to offer you the respect that your...
Why is she eight pounds over?
Well, sir, I was just...
Never mind the 'sir'. Never mind the 'sir'.
Mr Rothstein, sir, let me put her on suspension.
I-I'll do it.
Right away. Okay?
Okay. Just take it easy.
Yeah, Bill, listen, I'll explain to you later. Just - You - You got a gun at home? Yeah. Bring it over here right away.
Yeah, Billy Sherbert, please. Put him on.
He's gonna come up with ten thousand, just the way you wanted.
No, just - just give him, give him ten. That's it. Ten. I'll be right down.
He wants a fifty-thousand marker.
Now, he's really pissed.
The little guy. He's half in the bag, and nobody told him he was eighty- sixed from the joint, so we...
What is it?
Sam, we got a problem.
Here we go. Good luck.
L'chaim. [Yiddish for 'to life']
To Abraham Lincoln.
I don't care what she is. She's an institution, that's the problem. She's lazy.
This woman's an institution.
Fuckin' asshole won't budge.
We have some nice penthouses you'll enjoy. Maybe the Presidential Suite.
Why not make them happy?
Help the Senator, give him whatever he wants.
Nice to see you, Senator.
I had dozens of politicians and state officials comin' through that place every week.
I wouldn't give the bum a mop job.
He's juiced in. He's the County Commissioner's cousin.
We can't get rid of him?
We need this guy.
For guys like me, Las Vegas washes away your sins. It's a morality car wash. It does for us what Lourdes does for humpbacks and cripples. And, along with making us legit...
...And this is Ronnie, who takes care of the card room...
I hired an old casino pal, Billy Sherbert, as my manager and I went to work.
They had all the pieces they needed.
But it was just mine.
After all the threats and all the bullshit, it turned out Ginger didn't tell 'em anything. But by then, the Feds didn't need her, anyway.
If she calms down...
I am calm!
If she calms down, I will let her in the house.
You ought to be afraid, the way you fuckin' treat me!
Should I let her in like - ?
Let me in the house! Fucker!
I'm afraid she's gonna destroy stuff.
Oh, you are...
I'm afraid to let her in the house.
What do you mean, what am I gonna do? I'm in the same clothes for two days! I want to get a few of my things! Big deal!
Who knows what you're gonna do in there? I don't want you -
Not gonna let me in?
I won't let her in. I'm sorry, Randy, I'm not gonna let her in. She - Well, I'm not gonna let her in, the way she's behaving. I'm - I'm -
I'm not -
You are not threatening me anymore!
Don't you threaten me!
You'll wake the whole neighborhood!
Don't you threaten me!
You're gonna be sorry if you don't stop that.
I am not!
Will you stop it? You're drunk, you're on drugs. You're gonna -
You come out here and talk to me, you fucker!
Get down here and talk to me, goddamn it! Don't fuckin' ignore me! You motherfucker!
Just wait there for me!
You get down here!
She, she's alone. Just go. Take the gun and go into Amy's.
Oh, fuck you! Fuck you, Sam Rothstein! Fuck you!
You make me sick, you fuck. Once a fuckin' hooker, always a hooker.
So what? So who fuckin' blew you in the parking lot before you came in... huh?
Now you need approval from him to go home?
Get the fu- You threatening me? I'll fuckin' kill you in this place! Get up and go home right now.
I wouldn't -
Get up! Get going! Get up!
I wouldn't do that...
Get - get up!
I wou- I wouldn't do that if I were you.
Get - Get up! Get up!
And what? And let you disgrace me, you fuckin' pig? And let you disgrace me? Get up. Get up and be a mother. Get in the car and go to the house...
I want you to let me go.
You want your jewelry?
I just want the key to my jewelry, and I want you to let me go.
You understand? What? Let you go?
I'll sign anything you want me to sign, okay?
You fuckin' whore!
Why don't you just let me go, Sam?
You listen carefully! You ever fuckin' touch her again, you ever do anything like that again, I'll fuckin' kill you. Pure and simple. Do you hear me? Pure and fuckin' simple, I'll fuckin' kill you, you bitch.
I w- I was gonna be back before she woke up.
Let me tell you something. Listen to me.
Listen to me.
Listen to me, listen to me, listen to me. Listen, you fuckin' cunt.
I mean, she was asleep. I was going to be right back before she even woke up.
I should have -
She wasn't gonna get up. I was just gonna be out for a little while.
I ought to fuckin' have you committed. You fuckin' do that again, I'll f-, I'll f-
It's just for a little while, Sam. The baby-sitter wasn't there.
...you out of your mind? That's our child. Are you out of your fuckin' mind?
I mean, you tie up our kid and you lock the fuckin' door? Are...
I can back him off.
I mean, it could get us both killed.
What if he won't stop?
...she did what she did and I did what I had to do. But, Jesus, Nicky was the worst thing she could've done.
I know you were with somebody. Who was it? I just hope it's not someone who I think it might be. I just hope it's not them.
I was with somebody.
Who were you with?
All right... I didn't have lunch with Jennifer.
Fine. Just gonna get the bowl for my thing.
You know why I want to do it. Just do it.
Why do you want to do that?
Okay. I want you to call Jennifer and I want you to tell her to tell you what she had for lunch, and I'm gonna listen in on the other line.
She had the same.
What did Jennifer have?
I had a... salad.
What'd you have?
To the Riviera.
And where'd you go?
So, who'd you go to lunch with?
Oscar wants you to call him.
Oh. I got your cigarettes.
I put her to bed.
Look, I tried to do this thing. I know that you want me to, but it's just - You know, I'm driving down the freeway and the fuckin' thing's 'beep-beep-beep-beep'. You know, I'm in a restaurant and it's - it's embarrassing. I don't want to do it anymore. Where's Amy?
You threw it away?
I threw it away.
Hi. You didn't answer your beeper.
Get out of here!
I am not! She's my daughter too! Goddamn you!
You're stoned. You're a junkie. Get out of here.
I am. I'm wakin' her up right now.
You're not takin' Amy.
Fine. I'm takin' Amy.
You'll come back tomorrow and get the rest. Just get out of here.
Stop! You aren't getting rid of me with one fuckin' suitcase!
And don't send your guys down there to stop me! I mean it.
Yeah, no kidding. Good! It opens at 9 a.m. Be there!
I'm going to the bank and I'm getting my jewelry too!
Here. Here. Is this enough money?! Huh? Will it last you two fuckin' days? Take it, greedy bitch. Take the fuckin' money you fuckin' want.
You're lower than a dog!
I'll get your cash. You haven't been straight with me ever since I met you! You never loved me in the first place! I need eyes in the back of my fuckin' head with you, you fuckin' bitch!
And I still get my money. I need some cash right now. You can't just put me in the street.
No kidding. NO KIDDING!
The arrangement is over!
I'll go, but I want my money right now!
Take your fuckin' bag and get out of here!
Let go of me! Let go of me!
I want you out of here! I want you out of here!
Come with me now! Come with me now. Come with me now. I want you out of here.
Get off of me! Stop it!
You hate my guts? I want you to come with me now.
Yes, I want to kill you! I hate your fuckin' guts!
There's nothin' to figure out. I'm home... we're workin' it out.
I'm just tryin' to figure it out.
Would you knock it off, Sam?
Plus, at the most, three suits, a thousand apiece. That still leaves what? Around ten thousand?
At the most, which is impossible for him.
But even if you bought him a watch, a really nice watch, one that he thought was nice - and he doesn't know what the fuck a good watch is - so, you go, five, ten, twelve grand?
I bought him a watch too.
First of all, he's not gonna wear f- thousand-dollar suits. But let's say he did, which he won't. How you gonna get fitted for twenty-five suits in three days? I, um, I mean, how could you get fitted that fast? I can't get fitted that fast, and I pay twice as much.
The good part was, I had Amy back. So, we went home, had the housekeeper stay over, put the kid to bed, I calmed myself down and we went to dinner. I tried to keep things nice and civil, you know. But... hey, twenty-five thousand for three suits? That doesn't make much sense.
Twenty-five thousand for clothes and a watch.
He wanted a watch, too.
Twenty-five thousand for clothes.
He needed some clothes.
With the money.
So, what'd ya do with it?
Okay, no big deal. That's okay. Yeah. He got his twenty-five. That I'll live with. Any more I couldn't.
Yeah, yeah, I got the rest.
...the rest of the two million is still there?
It's, uh, it's under twenty-five.
...I-I... made some mistakes and I spent some money.
I gotta tell ya...
What about the money? Uh, where's the box?
I under-understand that. I-I know I fucked up.
Uh, I don't know. I gotta tell you, I don't know.
What I mean is, you think if, uh, do you think if I came back... do you think you could forgive me?
What do you mean?
Do you... I mean... I don't think she should go by herself.
...please. That's all I'm askin' you.
...uh-uh-uh - I'm not gonna ask you where you are, just please, put Amy on a plane. Just put her on right away, any plane to get her here right away...
Hi, it's me. Just who you wanted to talk to, right?
Yeah, they're gonna kidnap my kid. What do you want?
Well, that's why I'm here. She wants to come back, but she's afraid you're gonna whack her out.
Look in my eyes. Look in my eyes.
We had a deal. Remember that? He said if it didn't work out between us, that I could get my things and I could leave.
I mean she's only sober about two hours a day. It's usually from eleven in the morning until one in the afternoon. And if I gave her her money and her jewels now, you know what she's gonna do? She's gonna piss it all away in about a year, and then where will she be? Where would you be then? Comin' right back to me, right back to me. Or finding some other excuse to come and I - I -
Yeah, and I get a sprained fuckin' elbow.
...routine calls, they have to click off after a few minutes.
...on the stuff involving crimes. So on...
You see, if a phone's tapped, the Feds can only listen in...
Oh, God. Oh, God. Okay. Okay... I'll try. I'll try.
How could you say that? You're a beautiful woman. You're destroying yourself. You don't need that stuff. You don't need that fuckin' leech livin' off you. I know you better than you know yourself. You're a tiger, you're stronger than I am. And when you set your mind on doing something, you do it better than anybody. You can do it. You can do it.
No, you don't.
Yes, I - yes, I do.
That's all you care about. You don't care about me at all.
Yes, you do. It's very discreet. There's no names in the papers. You don't have to worry about any of that stuff.
I don't need one.
You understand? Your drinking's gettin' way out of hand. I'm gonna get you into a program. They got plenty of good ones.
If not for me, at least for Amy.
It's okay. Look... ...you gotta get a hold of yourself.
You know what, Ace? I don't give a shit! I'm gettin' out of here. I am.
Listen. Ginger. I'm tryin' to make the best of everything here, you know? I mean, you're my wife, for chrissakes. Uh, I mean... people look up to you in this town. I don't know what to think -
I said, you can't make me stop caring about people.
You can't make me stop caring...
Yeah, how do I know?
I was just tryin' to help him. It's not like I'm sleeping with the guy!
You didn't have to beat him up!
Look - for my ulcer, I take a half a one of these, a half a one of these. And that's when I have extreme pain. I had a three-month supply. What'd you do with 'em?
I didn't take your pills.
Isn't it bad enough you're drinkin' too much, you're takin' all my pills too?
Didn't. No, instead, what did he say? 'Fuck him. Take him for everything he's got.'
No, he didn't.
You remember when you called him that night? When you said goodbye to him? He didn't say, 'Don't get married, I'll be right down, we'll get married.' He didn't say that to you, did he?
Good, so then you could tell me what the money is for.
You can trust me.
You're askin' me for twenty-five thousand. I'm not out to make you feel bad. I want to just be able to trust you. You now, it's about trust. I have to be able to trust you with my life. Do you understand? Can I trust you? Can I trust you?... Can I trust you?... Answer me. Can I trust you?
Okay? And you're embarrassing me. Why do want to make me feel so bad?
What are you talkin' a- ?
Look - Sam, I've been independent my whole life. I never had to ask anybody for anything. Now you're making me beg you for this.
Well, if you want a coat, you got it. You know that. It's not the money, it's just why do you want it? That's all I'm askin'. Am I not entitled to that?
Huh? Well, you know what? Now, I want you to tell me. I mean, my wife comes to me and asks me for twenty-five thousand. I mean, what do you want? Do you want a coat?
Who's fighting? I mean, I'm, you know, tell me what it's for.
I'm aware of that. We don't have to turn this into a big deal. Okay? We don't have to have a fight. It was important to me. But forget it. Just something I wanted to do for myself.
Well, I mean... you know, I gotta ask you. That's a lot of money. You're not asking for a box of popcorn, you know. I mean...
Well, what's the difference? I just need it.
Why do you need that much?
Twenty-five thousand? For yourself?
Well, I would, you know, Sam. It's just that... well, I need more than that. I need twenty-five thousand.
Well, why don't you take it out of your account? There's a lot there.
You get her? Okay. Well, I need a lot. I need more than usual.
What do you need?
Okay, want to go with Mommy?
...they didn't know what really moved her.
But as much as they loved her...
Hey, do you want to see this one? Daddy gave me all this jewelry because he loves me so much. Put your arm in there.
She could be the most charming woman you ever saw. People loved to be around her.
Hi. Nice to see you.
So, I put two million in cash in a Los Angeles bank under the name of Mr and Mrs Tom Collins. This was strictly my shakedown and kidnapping money.
Need a little help with that, Mr Collins?
Crooked cops and kidnappers, they don't take checks.
All this stuff doesn't mean anything. Money, this, doesn't mean anything without trust. I have to be able to trust you with my life.
Now look, pay attention to me. What I'm gonna tell you is very important.
Come on. Can I keep this one in the house?
The only thing is... you shouldn't keep this in the house. We gotta put it in a bank.
You're so wonderful. The jewelry's not so bad, either.
You do whatever you want. Do I keep my promises, or do I keep my promises?
So, do you think it's too much if I wear these in the same day?
It's nice isn't it?
Oh, it's so soft.
You're kidding? My God. What is it?
Want to go? Let's go back in.
You're with me now.
It's all right. That part of your life is over with. Right?
I'm okay. I just - You just have to understand. I've been with Lester since I was a kid. I just wanted to say goodbye. I - I just... I don't... I think I have a right to do that. Okay?
Maybe you shouldn't drink so much.
I'm not crying.
Why're you crying?
You all right?
Just what I said. You'll be set up for the rest of your life. That I can promise you. Want to take a chance?
What're you... what're you pitching me, here?
You know I'm doin' well now. And I'm gonna do even better. And so, whatever happens, if it doesn't work out between us, I'm gonna make sure you're okay for the rest of your life. And if there are kids, especially, you know, I'll take care of you better than you'd ever imagine.
If it doesn't work out. You know, if it doesn't play out, then what happens to me?
No, I - I... mean... that can grow as I - as long as there's a mutual respect... that kind of thing can grow. I'm realistic. I can accept that. But, you know, what is... What is love anyway? It's a... it's a mutual respect. It's - it's a devotion. It's a... it's a caring from one person to another. And if we could set up some kind of foundation... based on that mutual respect... I feel that eventually you would care enough about me... that I could live with that.
Understand? I'm sorry.
I - I - I...
I care about you, a - But I just don't have those kind of feelings for you. I'm sorry. I'm not in love with you.
Yeah, I know all that.
You know a lot of happily married people, Sam? 'Cause I don't.
I'm forty-three years old. I don't want to wait. I know you well enough to know that I really love you very much. And I can't think of anybody better to be with. And I don't feel like waiting anymore.
You don't know me. What, you've known me, two, three months. What do you know?
I know I'd be a good father. I know you'd be a good mother.
You got the wrong girl, Sam.
I'm gonna do you one better. I'm trying to marry you. You want to marry me? I'm serious. I mean, I - I want to settle down. I want a family.
What, are you trying to handicap me?
We're not getting any younger. Don't you think it's time? Aren't you gettin' tired of all this shit? Bangin' around, hustlin' around?
Within no time, everything was set in place. We got rid of the freelance scamsters. The per was way up. The gods were happy, or as happy as the gods can ever be. And I, I decided to complicate my life. For a guy who likes sure things, I was about to bet the rest of my life on a real longshot.
The Ginger I knew wouldn't even look at this creep.
Thanks a lot.
...she took care of the valet parkers, the guys who could get you anything and take care of anything.
...pit bosses, floor managers.
She took care of the dealers...
That was all bullshit. She just pocketed the cash.
I hit a few... uh, games on the way back.
She was a queen around the casino. She brought in high rollers and helped them spread around a lot of money.
Okay, thank you for asking.
See you, Ginger.
I'll be right back.
Ginger's mission in life was money.
I'm going to go powder my nose.
...twenty years in order to find nothin' on me -
Long suspected of running the Tangiers without...
We all have a past. You have a past, I have a past. And my past is no worse than yours. But you guys think you have the right to pass judgement on me.
...stunned commissioners into the hallway, where he continued his harangue until his own lawyers and friends urged him to leave.
In a Wild and unprecedented outburst that followed his gaming license denial, Rothstein followed several...
- you could put 'em on your expense account?
Don't you remember? You promised me a fair hearing when you were gettin' comped at my hotel and you were asking me for copies of your bills so -
What are you running for, Bob? What are you running for?
...'Ace' Rothstein, accused the state's top gaming officials of corruption.
Good evening, everyone, I'm Paige Novodor. What should have been a routine licensing hearing turned into bedlam yesterday when the flamboyant Tangiers Casino executive, Sam
Yeah, thanks for not callin' me a liar. You son-of-a-bitch. You son-of- a
There was nothing to it. It was my pleasure.
Uh, I'm very proud to say that we have eight children.
How many kids do you have?
...Well, I've got a large family.
Listen, if you didn't know you're bein' scammed, you're too fuckin' dumb to keep this job. If you did know, you were in on it. Either way, you're out! Get out! Go on. Let's go.
This is not the way to treat people.
I'll regret it even more if I keep you on.
You might regret this, Mr Rothstein.
I'm firin' you? No, I'm not firin' I'm firin' you, you -
You're firin' me?
Listen, you fuckin' yokel, I've had it with you. I've been carryin' your ass in this place ever since I got here. Get your ass and get your things and get out of here.
I really think you're overreacting in this whole -
You - Wait! You didn't see that you were being set up on the second win?
I really think you're -
The probability on one-four-reel machine is a million and a half to one. On three machines in a row, it's in the billions. It cannot happen... would not happen, you fuckin' momo! What's the matter with you! Didn't you see you were bein' set up on the second win?
Hey... Ward, you're pissin' me off. Now, you're insulting my intelligence. What do you think, I'm a fuckin' idiot? You know goddamn well somebody had to get into those machines and set those fuckin' reels.
Well, it's a casino. People gotta win sometimes.
Yes, there is. An infallible way! They won!
Well, there's no way to determine that, Sam.
You didn't see the scam? You didn't see what was goin' on?
Well, it happened so quick. Three guys won. I didn't have a chance to call you.
Three fuckin' jackpots in twenty minutes? Why didn't you pull the machines? Why didn't you call me?
Shoot, it's gotta be in the millions, maybe more.
Four reels, sevens across, three fifteen-thousand-dollar jackpots? Do you have any idea what the odds are?
Dang, you are right, Mr Rothstein, I am so sorry.
Don't thank me, just do it. You're the Slots Manager. I shouldn't have to tell you this.
I do understand that. I'll get right on it. And thank you.
Listen to me very carefully. There are three ways of doing things around here. The right way, the wrong way, and the way I do it. You understand?
All right, I will, I will.
The action is in the front, not in the back. Bring 'em up front.
These are our best machines. They bring all the action. No wonder the drop is off.
What about the progressives with the high jackpots? Where are they? These machines are hidden.
Okay, I'll -
What are they doin' way back there? Bring 'em up here where they belong. You can't even see 'em over there.
Loose machines are right back over there.
It won't happen again, Sam.
Ah, yes, here we are. A little craps figures. [Actual amount taken from craps tables before the skim.] Hey - Hey.
Well, that's all I ask, gentlemen, a fair hearing.
You've been very open with us. I mean, uh, your books and papers and... that - that's gonna mean something when you go before the Commission.
I mean, if I can't work in Vegas, where am I gonna go?
That was nineteen years ago, and they were simple gambling pinches.
I had my license hearing coming up and I didn't wanna leave anything to chance.
A record of the arrests...
...worst possible time for me.
All right, I'm gonna give you a choice. You can either have the money and the hammer or you can walk out of here. You can't have both. What do you want?
Look what they did to my hand, man!
Now, you're gonna have to learn with your left hand.
So, you're a righty?
Well, I... I never tried.
Can you do it with your left hand?
Can't do it with both hands?
I'm just curious. I saw you shuffling your checks with your right hand. Can you do that with both hands?
We had to make an example of these pricks that the party was over.
Well, thank you. Why don't you take that fuckin' pen and shove it up you ass, you fuckin' jag-off?
I ju- Well, it's a nice pen. I just didn't know whose it was. I thought it was yours. I didn't want it to get lost.
Yeah, that's my pen. Why?
Is this yours? Your pen?
Get out of here.
You're fuckin' right, you made a bad mistake. 'Cause if you come back here - we catch either one of you - we're gonna break your fuckin' heads and you won't walk out of here. You see that fuckin' saw? We're gonna use it. You don't fuck around in this place. You got it?
I'm sorry. I made a bad mistake.
And don't forget to tell your friends what happens if they fuck around in here. You understand?
I just wanna get out of here.
Fuckin' kids at home! Here. Get the fuck out of here.
Don't fuck with me, Al! Don't make a fuck out of me! You want to embarrass me and make a fool out of me?! You didn't gamble?! Tell me you gambled the fuckin' money, I'll give you the fuckin' money to put the fuckin' heat on! Did you gamble?! Huh?!
I didn't give 'em the m-
No, no? You didn't?
You call yourself a man? You know you're a lyin', low-life, motherfuckin' gambling degenerate prick? You know that's what you are? Two small kids at home. I gave you money to pay the fuckin' rent and buy groceries, put the heat on. You know your wife called Frankie and told him the fuckin' heat's off?
A couple of guys, I owe them. So, that's what I did. I gave 'em the money. That's what I did.
...I got muscled on the street.
When I left here with the money...
No, you - You want me to come over there? I'll smack your face.
You shut up.
You know where she gets this from!
Shut your mouth!
I don't want to go to Europe.
We're not gonna go see any fuckin' elephants, okay?
I don't want to go to Europe. I want to go to see The Elephant Man.
Hey... you got a minute? Hey. He's got two million in the box, am I right? Okay, you let him keep your jewels. We take the cash and the only other thing he cares about. Huh? Her majesty. We go to Europe. You dye your hair, get some pl-
You're goin' out to Las Vegas, you're havin' a good time at my expense. What the fuck? I mean, after all, you're the one having a good time, not me.
Well, I keep layin' out my own fuckin' dough for these trips and nothin' ever comes back. I mean, what hell's goin' on? What are we doin' over here?
Artie, no records, Artie. What are you gonna do with records? Pay taxes?
Well, then, from now on, I'm gonna start keepin' records.
You gotta go back out there.
Well, I'm goin' all over, layin' money out of my own pocket, and I never get anything back. What the hell's goin' on?
Come on, go back there? I never got paid my expenses for the last trip.
You gotta go back there and talk to that guy.
What else? I gave her a schaff [Italian-American slang for 'tap'.]
Your cumma? What are you doin' with your cumma?
I was out there with my cumma [Italian- American slang for 'girlfriend'.]
Never mind fuckin' Sam. This is personal. I'll be there in the morning. You can fuckin' try me, fatso.
Hey, you fat Irish prick. You put my fuckin' money to sleep. You go get my money, or I'll put your fuckin' brain to sleep.
You can't talk to me like...
You know... I think that you've gotten the wrong impression about me. I think in all fairness, I should explain to you what it is that I do. For instance, tomorrow morning I'll get up nice and early, take a walk down over to the bank and walk in and see you, and, uh... if you don't have my money for me, I'll crack your fuckin' head wide open in front of everybody in the the bank. And just about the time that I'm comin' out of jail, hopefully, you'll be comin' out of your coma. And guess what? I'll split your fuckin' head open again. Because I'm fuckin' stupid. I don't give a fuck about jail. That's my business. That's what I do. And we know what you do, don't we, Charlie? You fuck people out of money and get away with it.
What're you gonna do? Strong-arm me?
Yeah. I think I want my money back.
Listen... Nicky... we talked about this... and, uh, I explained to you that there was the possibility you might have to take some kind of loss.
Yeah, least you could do is return my phone calls, though.
Well, I've been busy.
I've been trying to reach you. You're tougher to get than the President.
No, I don't want one. Hey, Mr Clark, how you doin'?
Well, you gotta understand, I'm giving you fifty thousand cash.
I mean, you will try to push it through, won't you, Mr Clark?
So I put some of the money into legitimate deals with Charlie Clark. He was Ace's banker.
Oh, listen, I understand that there's always a risk... you know, I might have to take a loss somewhere.
You need to understand, and I - I'm sure you do... that in a venture of this kind, you have to be prepared to take some kind of loss.
But how much cash could I bury in my closet, right?
Yeah, that works out.
Mr Ro- Mr Roth- Mr Rothstein, where you goin' -
You just - Just stop him.
No, you can, you can. You've been so nice to me.
Lady, I can't. I can't. I ca-
And here. Here.
Go get a bag, man.
Um, I'm gonna need a bag. If you could just ask the guy for a big bag, okay?
Jeff, would you go in with her?
Can I go in?
That's not a problem, that's not a p-
Can I go in?
He won't let me go in my house!
I'm just trying to get in my house!
Mr Rothstein. Mr Rothstein, I'm sorry. We've got some complaints about - about the noise.
He won't let me in my own house!
Mrs Ro- Mrs Rothstein! Okay, shh!
I'll to the FBI!
Go back inside! This is none of your business! I don't have to take your shit all the time anymore.
She's on the account. There's nothing we can do.
There's nothing we can do. She had the key.
Come on. I'm sorry.
If we let her get a few of her things we'll be out of your hair.
Hey, Mr Rothstein, it'll make it a lot easier on everybody here if we just let her in the house.
Mr Rothstein, why don't we just let her in the house and get a few of her things? That way she'll get out of here. This is half her house anyway.
All right. Okay, okay.
Oh my God, what are we gonna do? I'm sorry.
You - You fuckin' moron, I'll be filling out paper work for the next two months because of you and this piece of shit, you...
It looked like a fuckin' gun!
Pitch-black?! It -
What do you want? It - It's pitch- black out here. It's tin foil.
You've gotta be kidding me!
Here we go!
Leave me alone!
You fuckin' faggot! Do you know who you're fuckin' with?
Now move along.
You know who you're fuckin' with?! Huh? Do you?!
Fuck you! Fuck you!
Bullshit, you're out of here, cowboy!
Bullshit, I ain't goin' anywhere with you!
Sir, you're gonna have to leave. You mind accompanying us outside?
Nicky, I'm sorry.
You took your boots off? You put your feet on the table... you shit- kicking, stinky, horse-manure-smellin' motherfucker you! You fuck me up over there, I'll stick you in a hole in the fuckin' desert! You understand? Go over there and apologize. Go! Get the fuck out of -
Tell him to go fuck himself? You fuckin' hick! Fuckin'...
I did - I didn't -
Is that what you did?
Nicky, I did -
You called my friend a faggot? You tell him to go fuck himself?
He tries to do everything...
It's instinctive, you know.
Yeah, well, that's exactly what I keep tellin' him, but that's the kind of kid he is ever since he's born.
You know, he's gotta realize everything can't be a home run that he does.
...metro intelligence cop. But it didn't matter. I mean, it was all about the kids, you know.
Now go out there and show your dad what you can do.
Turned out to be one of the other coaches was a fuckin'...
Now, I want you to get out there and get me singles and doubles, okay? 'Cause that's what's gonna win this game.
Ace got my son, little Nicky, involved with Little League, and it was great.
Beautiful. You got a beautiful swing.
He's comin' over.
Why, does it look like it's bothering me? What do I give a fuck? Fuckin' Oscar too. All the fuckin' money I've given that prick, he don't even look over here. What's his problem?
Forget about it, Nick. Don't let it bother you.
Yeah. Fuck him.
Do you see that? Dumb Jew motherfucker. Grew up together and he's actin' like he don't even know me. I know we're supposed to avoid each other, but, you know, there's ways to do things and there's ways not to.
I had my kid brother, Dominick, run it for me.
Is that the last one?
...in some legitimate places, like my restaurant.
He's not here?
Yeah, we're lookin' for Carmine.
We're waiting on Carmine.
Oh, thanks, Eddy.
Well, listen, uh... Good luck with the joint, huh?
I think, you know, maybe he went across the street or somewhere else or somethin'. I don't know.
Carmine? He was here before. I saw him. He had a suitcase and everything, and then he left.
Yeah, I'm over here with him.
I'm over here now.
Hey, Nicky, how are you? What are you doin' here?
We can't help him if -
Stay out of the way!
No, I won't calm down! He's my husband!
Calm down! Calm down!
But I'm just trying to leave.
We're placing you under arrest for aiding and abetting a -
We're placing you under arrest for aiding and abetting -
We're - we're placing you under arrest for -
Okay. Frankie, you're a good boy.
You see... I wouldn't want to be jeopardizing anything for people who are our friends. You understand?
I'm askin' you, Frankie, to keep an eye on Nicky. Do it for me.
He's good. He's fine.
I want to know... if he's doin' all right. If he's okay.
Yeah, I know. That's why I'm asking. You see, my main concern is Nicky.
I'm positive. Remo... things are very fucked up down there, you know?
Are you sure?
No. I ain't see anything like that.
So, I lied... even though I knew that by lyin' to Gaggi, I could wind up gettin' killed too.
Because there's one thing about these old timers: They don't like any fuckin' around with the other guy's wives. It's bad for business.
What could I say? I knew if I gave the wrong answer, I mean, Nicky, Ginger, Ace, all of 'em could've would up gettin' killed.
Frankie... the little guy, he wouldn't be fuckin' the Jew's wife, would he? Because if he is... it's a problem.
I always tell you the truth, Remo.
I want you to tell me the truth, mind you.
Of course, Remo.
It's private... but I want you to tell me the truth.
Frankie, I want to ask you something.
I'll tell him, Remo.
You gotta tell him... to take care of things a little better.
And I mean... that's no good.
What're you gonna do?
It's in all the papers.
Yeah. Everybody's talkin' about it. They're makin' a big deal out of it.
Yeah, I heard, yeah.
Frankie... they found a guy's head in the desert. Do you know about that?
E mo va! [Italian-American slang for 'Now, go!']
I'll take care of it, Remo.
...I want all the names of all the other people he had with him. And I don't care what you have to do to him to get 'em. You understand?
How are you?
And how are things going down there?
But I knew how to keep the bosses happy. Whenever they gave me little jobs to do, you know, to send a message, I would carry things out...
Want me to take this for you?
Uh-huh. Mi raccomando. [Italian- American slang for 'I'm counting on you']
Not like your fuckin' friends out there, that... without brains. Okay?
Keep a good eye on him. He's makin' a lot of money for us. And he's gonna continue makin' a lot of money for us, so keep a good eye on him.
T'aggia parla. [Italian-American slang for 'I've got to talk to you'] Nicky... See that guy?
I'll be right out.
Hey, Nick. Vien acca. [Italian- American slang for 'Come here']
Keepin' Remo happy with money was the greatest insurance policy in the world.
That's enough now!
I mean, unless Ace made his bet.
Ma che cazzo!
But back then the bosses didn't give a fuck about whether he enjoyed himself of not. To them, he was a cash register. All they had to do was ring the bell and take the money. Especially Remo, who was a fuckin' degenerate gambler who always lost.
Definitely the most important guy in this room.
You got a round figure on it?
You fucked with me for the last time!
All right. Be careful.
I'm going' to the FBI! I'm not scared anymore!
All right, all right.
I don't need you! I have my own fuckin' money!
Get the fuck out of here.
Get the fuck out of here. Get out! Get the fuck out!
Ah, you fuck! You're such a fuckin' asshole!
How the fuck am I gonna get your fuckin' money now? You think he's gonna give you fuckin' money? Are you out of your mind?! Look what you just did to this fuckin' guy! If you would have just kept your fuckin' mouth shut! Ah, what the fuck is the use? I should've never got invol-
What about my money?
Hey, don't be such a fuckin' smartass, will you? I mean, I know the fuckin' guy thirty-five years, I'm gonna fuckin' whack him for you? Fuck... motherfucker! I knew this, I knew it.
Oh, well, then, have him killed and get it over with.
I'm not gonna kill him. Shut the fuck up. What, do you know what you're talkin' about? I'm not killing anyb-
If it's so fuckin' dangerous, then why don't you kill him?
I told you this was fuckin' dangerous. Remember I said, 'Ginger, this is a dangerous situation. Be very careful.' You fuckin' yessed me to death.
Me? I said... nothin'. I said, I said, 'No, no, no.' Everything he said, I just kept sayin' no.
What did I tell you? Supposing he goes back home and makes a fuckin' beef? I gotta know exactly what you said. Tell me what you said to him.
Yeah. Uh-huh -
It's what you want?
Thank you. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yes, I will. It's what you want, isn't it? Huh?
Mm... okay. Don't worry about it. Nobody'll fuck with ya anymore. I'll take care of ya.
Is that what you want?
I do. I need a new sponsor.
I need some help. I do. I need some help. You gotta help me. I need a new sponsor, Nicky.
Come on. Don't be scared.
I'm not and he scares the shit out of me. I never know what he's gonna do.
Yes, you are.
I'm not as tough as you think I am.
Come on, come on, you're a toughie. You can take this. Don't cry.
He hates my fuckin' guts.
Exactly. He hates me.
He really thinks who the fuck he is, I'll tell you that.
No, he's not.
Everything went to his head.
Yeah. Boy, he really fucked himself up out here - - didn't he?
'Cause you always tell me the right thing to do.
Yes, you did.
I did what you told me to.
You did. I like that. I like that. That's what I like about you. You did the right thing.
You did. You're right.
I didn't. I didn't. I mean, I did, but then I did exactly what you told me to do, and I came right back.
No, he wouldn't. I would have. And he'd've been right, too. I mean, seriously. Well, there's one thing you don't do. You don't take a guy's kid and then take off.
He's so fuckin' lucky. I could have buried him. I could have gone to Europe and taken the baby. And then he'd've tracked me down and he'd've killed me.
Yeah, right. That's Sammy. And he's probably got it there too.
He holds that key so tight, he's probably got it stuck up his ass.
Yeah. 'Cause, you know, He's never gonna give me my jewelry.
See who I got in there. Gotta get somebody I can trust.
Let me think about that.
Well, I was thinkin', maybe... you know somebody at the bank... could help me get my jewelry out? There's a lot of money in there. Lot of money in there, and I'd be willing to take care of anybody who helped me out.
Tell me what you were gonna say. Go ahead.
I don't -
What were you gonna say? Go ahead.
Oh, you're right, I know. It's... well, I was just -
I mean, listen, two people don't get along, at some point you gotta call it... I mean, it's none of my business, but I ... I think that's what you gotta do. You gotta take it somewhere -
And listen, don't do anything else crazy, okay? You all right? Okay.
I'll be there.
So, I'm gonna call you back in an hour... at this number, and you're gonna be there, right?
Yeah, uh-huh... Okay.
You just relax, and call me back here in exactly an hour, on this phone, and I'll see what I can do.
No, I really do. I think he's gonna kill me.
You just relax. Nobody's killin' anybody, do you hear?
It's all right.
Come on, now, I don't want to see you unhappy.
You're so nice.
You're a beautiful girl. You don't want to ruin your looks. I've seen a lot of girls get shot to hell from this stuff.
Oh, come on.
And take it easy with this shit, will you? I mean, this can only make matters worse.
Look, I'll try to find out what the hell's goin' on. When I see him I'll talk to him.
He gives a fuck what I do?
Well, I guess it's 'cause he loves you so much. He's jealous and worried.
He didn't have to hit him. It's not exactly like I'm sleepin' with the guy! And he makes me sneak around to see my own friends! What the fuck is that all about?
He could have killed him! Okay? He could have killed him.
I understand that. But, you know, I think you should try to make the best of it now. Go slow, you know. See what happens.
Listen, Ginger... you know, this is probably not... I don't have the answers anyway... and this is probably not what you want to hear right now, because you're a little upset with Ace.
I know what you mean.
I should have never married him. He's a Gemini. A triple Gemini... duality. Gemini's the snake. You know you can't trust the snake. I mean it.
Well, there you go. But what does that tell ya? A million dollars in jewelry. Does that tell you the guy is crazy about you, or what?
I'm told it's worth about a million dollars, maybe more.
No. I - I'm just curious, you know. I was wonderin' how much he would put into a thing like that. That's all.
Mm, you want to steal it?
You mean, like a lot of expensive jewelry? About how much?
So, he put aside some jewelry for me. A lot of jewelry.
I can see that. Sure.
Am I right?
Oh, come on. I went into this with my eyes open, you know. I knew the bottom could drop out at any time. I'm a working girl, right? You don't think I'm gonna go into a situation like this if I don't think I'm gonna get covered on the back end.
I never see - You know, I never seen him act like that with anybody else. I think he's crazy about you. I mean, he really loves you. He does.
You know... the first time I ever saw your guys together... I never saw him so happy. I mean, I know he's a crazy Jew fuck and everything, but...
Yeah. He's just a friend of mine I was trying to help, so... so what?
Oh, you did? I didn't know that.
No! No! I told him all about the guy before we ever got married. This is no fuckin' surprise.
Well, you gotta understand it. He doesn't know if this guy is shaking you down or taking advantage of you.
Yeah, no shit.
I know it wasn't a nice thing to do but -
Hi, how are you?
Pleasure. Very nice to meet you.
But I saw something...
Well, you know...
You know, I've got to do some shopping afterwards. Do you want to go?
Well, you might as well get somethin' out of it.
I told him I was Mrs Sam Rothstein.
So, what'd you say to that fuckin' jerk anyway?
Well, how 'bout that?
Get lost, Ginger! Get lost!
What do you mean 'stole'? I didn't steal anything from you.
That bag's full of fuckin' chips you
Don't give me that shit. I want my money.
Ginger, I've been watching you all night. You've been stealing from me.
What money? Look at this stack of chips. Don't give me that shit. I want my end.
What money? I've seen you stealing from me.
What do you mean, 'What's the matter?' I made a lot of money for you. I want my cut.
What's the matter?
Thank you, sir, I appreciate that. Everybody, thanks. Gives some chips as tips to the dealer and box man. Thanks. Take care, Steve. Take chances and drive fast.
Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
I told you I was hot tonight.
Thank you. Very nice.
You're driving me nuts!
No, I'm not gonna drive with some crazy -
No, I'm gonna drive.
You're not gonna drive. Don't even think you're gonna drive.
She started it. She started the whole thing. I'm just standin' here.
Just knock it off! Would you two knock it off? Get in the car.
'Go! Go! Go!'
Go! Go! Get in the car! Go!
You're done yakkin', okay? You're done yakkin' now?
Oh, what bullshit? What, do you want to fuckin' talk it over now?
It's this bullshit. It's just bullshit right here. This is the fuckin' problem, you know.
Get your bag! Come on, get your bag! Get your things! Let's go!
What do you think we're gonna do? He's probably got guys outside the fuckin' house!
He's sittin' by the phone -
That's - Yeah, he's sitting by the phone like a dumb-bell, just waiting for you to call him back. That's what he's -
Ginger... It means he's sitting by the phone like a dumb-bell, waiting for me to call him back. Now, I -
So, he knows where you are. That means he's sending some guys over here probably right now.
I just talked to him.
He called you right here.
He was just on the phone.
Lester - he called you here.
Don't give me any of your shit! Okay, this has always been a dream, but we're going.
We're going to Europe. Let the adults talk. You dye your hair... you get plastic surgery, like we talked about. Right? You're the mother. How much do you think he's gonna pay to get this fuckin' kid back?
We'll go later.
You got money. That's a - That's a good look.
It means I got the money.
What does that mean? No, I know that look. What does that mean?
Uh, talk to you later. Bye.
Every time I ever see you, that's what I see.
- with stupid braces on your teeth.
Yeah, I do. I mean, it's - it's the - it's the best thing you can do right now. I mean this. And you'll have real security. Sweetheart... you're gonna be situated just right in Vegas.
...all the luck in the world.
God... I wish you...
So, it's gonna be okay, isn't it?
Yeah. This is the best thing I can do for my life right now.
Do you know that?
Bub-ut, baby, do you know that I love you too?
I love you.
Don't make me come there. Answer me.
I'm always here for you.
No, you're not. Where are you? Where are you?
Where are you goin'? Where are you? You're in that place. Where are you?
Yes, don't worry.
Are they out now?
They checked in alone.
They check in alone?
...they're in Penthouse K.
- back to Nigeria. Yeah.
Boy, look at this place, huh?
Hey. Hey, Sammy, how are you?
Hey, how you doin'?
Oh, there aren't? What's that? Huh? What's that. There's no more. Thanks, hon.
Look, there aren't... There aren't but...
Come on, damn it. Don't get so defensive. It could be stuck in your hair, you know.
God, I'm telling you, they're out!
There's more! There's a couple stuck in there. I know there's more.
I think that's it.
Don't look at me, pal. I gotta live with her.
Excuse me, but I folded these things beautifully and I would appreciate a little respect. Jesus Christ!
What a smart kid you are! Okay, eat.
'Cause it clogs up your heart.
You know why, right?
How many of these you gonna eat, huh?
Take him out! Take this motherfucker out!
No, no, no, no!
No more fuckin' dirty work!
Fuck you, you motherfuck!
Frankie! Frankie, you piece of shit!
No more! You see? Watch!
I'm in a bad fuckin' spot here. You know that? Bad fuckin' spot.
Take it easy. What could you do? I mean, she threw herself at you, right?
I fucked up, Frankie. I fucked up good this time. Should have never started with this fuckin' broad.
Get her the fuck out of here. Get her out of here.
You're gonna fuckin' kill her. Take it easy.
Why'd I get involved with this fuckin' nut in the first place? Get out!
Take it easy!
Get out. Get out! Get out!
Whoa. Calm down.
Shh. Hide her car in the back!
Calm down, calm down. Shh!
Yeah, either that or in the fuckin' bank. I don't know. They're all over the joint.
Dominick said they're in the motel?
Did I say to do anything yet? I said I'm not sure... I'll let you know. I want to think about it. Where're these pricks at?
Yeah, just let me know. But you gotta be ready. You know what I'm talkin' about?
And you make it disappear, you know what I mean?
And when I'm ready, I'll say the words, 'Go see the Jew.'
They'll do it.
Yeah, but I'm not sure yet.
Angelo and Buster.
You know what I want you to do? Get a couple of guys to dig a hole in the desert, then let 'em show you where it's at.
Oh, he ain't nobody.
Who's this guy? Who's this guy?
Well, now, sure they're askin'. They earn with the prick. I got a funny feelin' he's gonna start a fuckin' war or somethin'. I'm not sure yet, you know. But I w- You know, but you know what I want you to do?
Yeah, but they keep askin' about it.
I don't trust him anymore. But they'd never okay anything, you know?
I know. I know.
Yeah, what's to stop him?
Nah. You would've heard somethin'.
You think he's goin' home, makin' a beef behind my back?
I told him I didn't know nothin'. But Jiggs and, uh, Tony Gorilla said if you did anything, you're fucked up.
Yeah, what'd you tell him?
He asked me again about you and the Jew's wife.
Walk, walk, walk. What'd you say?
He asked me again about you and the Jew's wife.
Go fuck yourself.
You must have drunk too much.
What? Get out of here? I got a marker comin'.
Let's get out of here.
Sue me, you Jew fuck!
You should pay as fast as you collect, you know.
So are we.
They're havin' a good time too.
Fuckin' Jews stick together, don't they?
They want a fuckin' war, I'm ready.
It's up to you.
I do all the work. Somebody don't like it, fuck him.
Let 'em complain. I'm the one who's here.
Yeah, but they're complaining.
But, hey, what do they care, as long as I keep sendin' money back.
...bosses. I mean, they're smokin' their Di Nobilis and they're eatin' a trippa [Italian-American slang for 'tripe'.] and fuckin' suffritt', you know, fried pigs guts? While, if I wanna talk private, I gotta go to a fuckin' bus stop.
But he never talked.
Yeah, thanks a lot.
...to a tee. Like the time Tony Dogs...
Fine. Everything's goin' good.
Nicky sends his warmest regards.
I mean, the cops knew, but they didn't give a fuck. I mean, you know, they all worked it out together.
...Remo and the guys used to hang out and count their millions.
This is Nick.
And this is Stacy.
Hey. This is Shelly.
You walk past me?
I took care of everybody.
Give all the guys in your crew a piece of that?
Every night, on the couch.
I actually turned my bedroom into a bank vault where I kept the choice stuff.
What, are you gonna have a fuckin' meeting here, or are you gonna buy some diamonds?
Whenever we got local merch, we'd usually send it to Palm Spring or Arizona... LA. I had a couple of sand niggers out there. You know, Arabs.
This peter's a motherfucker.
What's takin' so long over there?
Sometimes I used to go along on a heist just for the fun of it. But I didn't like the people I was rippin' off lookin' at me, so I used to turn their fuckin' pictures around.
You go over there right now and you apologize. You better hope he lets you back in.
Come here, come here.
...you big fuckin' hick, you. Come here. Come here. Get him up. Come here.
You call this guy and tell him I'm comin'?
Ace saw Vegas one way.
Hold it, hold it. Here.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
'Cause you're a jag-off. I would have fuckin' made you lay ten...
Well, how come I laid nine?
Kill you, You motherfucker you! Frankie, do him a fuckin' favor.
Kill me, you fuck, kill me.
Charlie M? You make me pop your fuckin' eye out of your head to protect that piece of shit? Charlie M? You dumb motherfucker!
Oh, God! Give me the fuckin' name!
This motherfucker, do you believe this? Two fuckin' days and nights! Fuck me?
Listen to me, Anthony. I got your head in a fuckin' vise. I'm gonna squash your fuckin' head like a grapefruit if you don't give me a name. Don't make me have to do this, please. Come on. Don't make me be a bad guy. Come on.
Your fuckin' head, huh? Don't fuck around, Tony.
My fuckin' head.
Yeah, I know, that's why you had it ready. You thought I was fuckin' layin' it?!
I'm sorry, Nicky. I didn't mean anything by it.
Maybe if I stick your fuckin' face through this window over here like, you know, you'll - you'll get unconfused. Give me the fuckin' money!
You're a little confused?
Well, I'm a little confused here.
I was layin'? No, no, I'm taking it. I was takin' it.
What thing? Oh, Nicky... I thought you was layin'.
All right, yeah. You got that thing for me?
How you doin'?
How you doin'?
Mr. Chairman -
Do I hear a motion seconded?
...this, uh, this Commission is prepared to act on a motion denying the Rothstein application.
No, I want to have this marked, Mr. -
Pardon me, counselor. Before you continue...
Then do it the way you want.
...done right, you gotta do it yourself.
You are right. What can I...
...everything's comin' out of my pocket. I gotta pay for all these trips back and forth, back and forth.
You know, I - I'm too upset right now. And - An end has to be put to this.
You'll get a heart attack like that.
All right, all right. But I - I -
Take it easy, though.
I can't take this no more. Back and forth, back and forth.
I know it, I know it.
You know - You know - You know what they're doin' to me?
I know, but that's enough.
Mom, I'm sorry, they're beatin' me left and right. Ma, I'm sorry. I'm all upset.
All right, take it easy now, take it easy.
...behind my head. They trust that scumbag, I don't. Right now, the way I feel, I'll hit the two of them in the head with a fuckin' shovel.
I've never trusted him. And you know I got eyes...
I didn't curse. I said 'frickin' head'.
Nance gives me trouble and I'll tell him... screw around with those suitcases and I'll take the eyes out of his frickin' head.
There's a lot of people here.
Since when do you talk like that?
Receipts and bills and... everything's here.
What's the matter with you?
Oh, sorry -
Uh, I have a plane to catch to Cleveland... Can I get my winnings?
You'll want to count the money in privacy. You know, you don't need...
Having a good time?
Why don't I take him over to the office and verify it, huh?
Hiya. That's a lot of money to be counting out in public.
Adonis, be polite. She's a friend.
Yew'll be ovah in the naxt tehn minutes...
I'm not going to worry about it. We are quite beyond the computer disc. Everything will be over within the next hour or so.
I don't know about you, guys, but I'm getting a little buzz off this.
Works for me.
Ayy! Some cat's blocking the periscope. Somebody, give it a swat...
Have we reached the epi-center?
It's okay. Let her go.
Oh Man, not the sewer, I just had this cape cleaned...
You have to dial nine first.
I still have to call my agent--my techno-single just made the hot 100...what's with the phone?
Do I have to remind everyone that in two days, we'll all be dead. The Cult of Good will be a memory. I don't want to hear about lawsuits or cereals. We have a secret mission...
Crowd always buys it. What do we got?
The crowd bought it.
Sorry, sir. The Cult is my life and my life is the Cult. By God, Captain God, I shall not fail you..
Hey, Hot Stuff. You're still on the clock...
Yeah, all those women who went feline this afternoon...They're so ashamed now..
You know, nobody likes you...
That's a good one, dude. He says we're going to kill you whether you tell us where the disc is or not.
Be verwy, verwy, quiet; I'm hunting Catwomen.
Ah, Cats. Now and Forever.
This looks promising...
I thought we were going to take it easy until the Mission...
Oops--my face must match my cape. And to think we were going to let you go...
Cactus, I can't believe you just said all that...
I thought you said you weren't a very good liar.
We'll hunt him down together...
In many ways, that obnoxious creep Cactus was the worst one of all. He got off on giving out pain...
You're serious? You'd help me...
It would be honor, Brock. Now let's go get this guy...
This ring belonged to my sister. I'd love for you to...
Somewhere very far away, very quiet, and very... This is all wonderful, Selina, but...But I'm afraid I can not rest until all my sister's killers are brought to justice...That one-armed monster..
Oh now, you put up a good fight. Let's change the subject. Where do people who live in Oasisburg go to get away from it all?
A couple that battles the forces of evil together is a couple that stays together. Thank you, Jeff.
Quite a pair we make. Thank you, Jeff.
I still can't get over it. I still can't believe you're Catwoman..
No-o. You know, questions like that don't help your cause--
You're telling the truth. I can tell..How did this..
Hmm. Not bad.
What did you say? Selina, sit down, the entire city is going crazy...You have to just calm down...
Tonight, somewhere in the city, innocent people will die--but then one of you knows that; for one of you is a vicious pirate-terrorist posing as the beloved superhero Captain God.
Uh Brock, today you are without me...
Exactly. I don't know what I'd do without you.
At some sanctimonious celebration of condescension. Nothing like appeasing half the population with a two hour luncheon.
Fine. You're angry. Don't be. The important thing is we're together now..
I got home fine. How's the "warehouse."
Selina, did you make it home, all right? I tried calling, but your mother said that there was "no extension in the Hut." Whatever that means..
Are you sure?
Your warehouse? Go on ahead--to your "warehouse." I'll be okay...
This is insane. Let the heroes handle it. I'd better get you home...I should check on my warehouse to make sure it hasn't been hit...
Well, it's just that I would think that the woman who is the real, non- imitation Catwoman would be pretty angry at some little amateur minx stealing the whole whip idea. Really angry.
What's the matter? What are you saying?
A whip? Now that's going too far! Some of these women have no shame!
No it's not.
What little boy doesn't... My God...it's, it's...Catwoman.
I'm sorry I went off like that, I get passionate. I--I guess I'm a passionate person. One of those things I had forgotten. When you were a little boy did you want to grow up to be a superhero?
So, did you see "Seinfeld" last week? That Kramer-guy really makes me laugh.
Stop. We are not having a "duality" conversation. "Ooh, he has a secret side. Ooh, she has a dark side." Please. Duality is a joke. You get one, do you understand me? You get one life. One shot. I'm so tired of women saying "I have an inner strength" or "Deep down, I'm really ambitious." "One day I'll design my own line of clothing and write children's stories, if I can only remember to return the videos I rented last night." If you are something, then you better be out there doing something. You need to be the same bold thing in the day that you are at night--with maybe a slight clothing change. There is no gray area. The truth is not somewhere in between. There are two sides to every personality, all right--the reality...and the lie. We are not having a "duality" conversation.
I despise these kind of winds. Sorry, I guess I'm a little on edge. Seems this Catwoman has everyone, men and women, on edge. Don't you feel Catwoman says something about the duality of all men and women...
You're very special. Selina, I'm not a very good liar. I feel very strongly about you...forgive me use of architecture metaphors, but I instantly know a good foundation when I see one..
I checked out your stuff at the library. Awesome work, really. Why would someone like you want to go out with a...with a..what exactly am I, again?
Hey, hey, the client comes first. You think I want my future children to know their Daddy created Frank's Fun Palace?
Oh, it's superb--I mean if you like that fascist nightmare kind of thing...
What did you think?
You designed Gotham Plaza? The big silver guys pulling on those big silver things...
I'm not afraid. Are you?
There's a nice cafe down the street...unless you're afraid of this Catwoman prowling around. We can always dine at the mansion, if..
But of course you are. Dinner at Eight. Wouldn't miss it.
Kincaid got a little frisky last night...So, meet here at eight and go from there? By the way, I'm Brock Leviathan.
How heroic of you...
I was wondering, if you're not doing anything tonight...Would you like to go to dinner? I know; a tame suggestion considering the wide variety of miniature golf possibilities available to the Oasisburg citizen--but nevertheless, would you?
You're probably right.
I'll bet the butler's name wasn't "Jeff."
Nothing, just a jolt of deja-vu. I think I went out with a guy with a dignified British butler--can't remember how it turned out..
What's the matter...
Strange--you seemed so close. I wonder what's happened since yesterday..
I don't know. I can't remember.
Ouch. I hope you're not offended by aggressively curious men.
Guilty. I am.
You say that like an amnesia victim.
I'll bet. Funny, for some reason, I don't think dogs are supposed to like me.
No, in art. I try not bring up women around Kincaid. It's a sore spot between us. Long story..
He likes you. Kincaid and I have always had similar tastes...
What little boy doesn't?
I guess we did. When you were a little boy, did you want to be a superhero?
But then we knew that all along, didn't we...
I've been looking for you. Selina Kyle was right. One of us is a psychotic crusader.
I've been looking for you.
It may be time to get the police involved...
I can. That's not an admission of guilt, It's just..I knew you had it in you...
Did you ever think that maybe neither of us is Captain God?
Quiet, Blender Boy. I told you from the beginning, Selina, I'm not a very good liar. I am not Captain God, or whatever else he may be calling himself this month, but when I find out who is--The Man will pay. My sister died in that Museum attack. You can check the Atlanta obituaries. I've tracked these monsters from city to city, waiting for a time to exact my revenge. Why else would I come to Oasisburg and create the most obnoxious casino in the world?
Your uniform, that first time I saw you, was a ghastly cage I vowed to unlock in order to..
You're right, I wasn't looking to fall in love with a casino worker. I'd given up trying to find anyone. But there was a fire in your eyes that cut right through the air conditioning and through the coldness of my heart.
But it's true! You can call him yourself.
Yes, did you call us here for any particular reason?
Selina, are you okay?
Oh, you don't have to explain to me where you're going...
I better go report this in...
I suppose she does.
She has reason to be suspicious..Doesn't she?
A bit on the suspicious side, don't you think?
She has a real spirit.
Selina Kyle...lovely person.
They do take their time. So..Selina Kyle...
Can I just say what a classy touch the neon urinals are, Mr. Architect? I just love risking electrocution every time I..
Oh, how long have you had your own route?
There you are darling...Have we met, Lewis Lane, Oasisburg Times.
Oh come on, Cactus, be a man! The blimp is still on schedule, right?
Catwomen. Lots of them!
God, can you hear me!
Just hold on! I'm not done. There are two kinds of men in the world, Selina. In Category A, you have Me. In Category B is everyone who wants to be in Category A, but are too afraid, too weak..!
Boss, we better roll if we're going to hit this place, blow it up, and make that flight..
Don't you feel so much better now that you know everything? Blink once for yes, twice for..
Priceless...We have a showdown in this alley, right?
Hey, speaking of Wrong Place, Wrong Time. Lewis Lane to the rescue!
You've lost all motor functions. The poison will kill you in ten minutes.
What about "climbing in?"
The "skylight?" Fool! It's too high for anybody to climb out the damn skylight...
Even the skylight?
Don't you realize there's nothing you can do, anyway! Nine minutes and it's all over! The Fun Palace is a tomb. No one can get out. And choke on this furball: all doors and windows are blocked, locked, and electrified! Even the glass around the bomb is rigged.
Well then, let's agree to disagree...Now how about a picture for my scrapbook?
You might be right, but Fun is overrated. I need something real.
Will you please stop fighting? Just let those people die so we can get on with our new lives together! Trust me, one day we'll look back on this day and laugh. You got to admit, it's a lot more fun to be the villain.
I know, I know, a Warrior. You're very annoying..Now tell me how to defuse the bomb you've set..
You were right all along--the two parts to a person are the reality and the lie. I was making good money as a top architect--but that's not who I am. I'm not an architect, I'm a..
I've been thinking. I've been thinking about us. I'm sorry I've been so hard no you these past couple days. I realize now it's because you're the only woman who ever understood me and I couldn't handle it! I've never revealed myself to anyone the way I have to you. Let's blow this town together. We'll run a bed-and-breakfast in Vermont by day, and by night, we'll dress up and kill anything that...
Oh Honey, it's so much better when we do it without the helmet.
At this point, a nap. Oh by the way, I killed your butler and your dog..
What do you want from me?
I thought cats were supposed to have nine lives, not thirty one! What do you think you're doing?
Touchy. Look everybody, it's Casper, the friendly crimefighter...
Cactus, sometimes you don't deserve to wear our logo.
Yeah, this is better than rape.
Resting Up? Sorry Spooky, I've got to go with God on this one. I hate to think we're just in this for the money. Garfield's girlfriend crossed a line last night and she's got to get spayed. We're going out of Oasisburg on a win.
Not now, Mammoth. Adonis is right. We've had a good run here--the protection kickbacks from the crime syndicates, the merchandising scams-- Tomorrow night we have a big, violent, complicated and lucrative mission to pull off. We chould be resting up.
Ooh, I've read about this philly. She's the one who gave that wimp Batman all those migraines up in Gotham...
What's the catch?
He didn't remember to roll up his window...
"Dat's gotta hurt!"
I hate innocent bystanders. Whine, whine, whine. Will he settle?
The shopkeeper on 13th street won't drop the lawsuit--He still claims one of the lasers we fired at the Jenkins gang burned down his store..
I'll put that in the report--after you shoot her.
My, the Perpetrator seems to be a bit on the "Wild" side..
Car wash, Captain?
I got her...
Quite a little performance you gave in the casino today--for me and that other guy. Come on down, let's chat..
Yeah...pretty gross. Hurry, we've got work to do.
Ah, did you hear that? Spooky loved you...
I know how you feel, humiliated in the hands of a woman. I'd rather eat my soul on a paper plate...
Sorry man, I didn't mean that personally...
What did you say?
How could I forget. Mammoth--go pet the kitty.
I don't know, Boss, you saw what the big guy did to the last kitty we gave him.
Why am I still troubled...
Right time. That was kind of fun. She had spunk.
I don't know what I was saying. I totally phoned it in last night. I haven't been getting a lot of sleep lately...
Boss-man, what were you going on about last night: "I am the Law and I am the Danish..."
Well. I stand corrected.
That is not a man, Captain God. That is Vomit accidentally born with two legs.
Cactus--shooting a man in the back is not very noble.
"Well done," Cactus.
What a "drag."
I loved you.
Of course it matters! It throws off everything! "Superhero" is manhood's highest achievement. Manhood! Your dirty little secret has diseased us to the core. You were my buddy, my comrade-- women aren't buddies, women aren't warriors! You tried to turn the Cult of Good into some after-work softball team! It's time to get thrown from the treehouse...
Why are you--I fought for you with honor. Why should it matter if I'm a man or a woman, as long as I'm a good warrior.
Just like a woman. You want out. You're out.
I want out of tonight's mission. I can't do it anymore, Captain. I can't let innocent people die to prove our superiority..I can't.
What's the matter with you, Spooky, my most trusted comrade? We are warriors! These are the challenges we live for!
I hate it when you get like this. This Catwoman is becoming an obsession. I say we call it a night. Tomorrow is a big day for us...
The Tranquilizer Tranquility will hold for about an hour..where is she? These women are out here on a lark-- Ladies Night at a discotheque. It's not in their blood the way it is for Catwoman...Where is she?
Oh, I like her. I like her a lot. I want to save this one for later. Something that tasty you don't eat all at once. Go back to your alter- egos, we'll regroup in the morning.
You like them, don't you, Boss.
Just a homeless woman. Wrong place.
Well, you don't see that everyday. Somebody tell me what's the deal with Frida Kahlo here?
A bit sadistic, don't you think, Captain...?
Well, we spent enough time building the damn thing, might as well use it.
Now he'll be up all night...
Oh, I wish they wouldn't feed him like that.
You can't get away with..
Ah, the good guys always triumph in the end. It's what allows our children to sleep at night.
Do you have any idea how much superheroes get paid? Zilcho. Urban vigilantes with secret identities operating outside the law. Not exactly the stuff of a W-2 form. If it wasn't for merchandising and corruption and these diabolical "missions"...There is no such thing as heroes and villains, anymore, Selina. There are only winners and losers. You lost. We won.
I'm supposed to be taking personality tips from you three? You people were once heroes. You had ideals. You fought for things. Spooky told me so...
I know, I should probably tell you, but I just don't feel like it. To be honest, I'm really angry at you. I admired you so much more when you were purely wicked. I mean, look at you now, running around trying to "get to the bottom" of things. Trying to "save the city." It's true we're about to do a very nasty deed, but really, what's it to you? Since when do you care what happens to a bunch of pathetic Oasiburgians? You're just not yourself, anymore.
How can you say things with such feeling and then turn around and put on a helmet and...Who are you? Were you sitting on my right or my left at the card table? Tell me! Please tell me who you are; you own me that!
You've seen me...
You think so?...Selina?
I still have one left...
Yes. I am the reporter or the architect. You've been through so much..It looks like you've used up all nine of your lives...
Oh please, sir, one more. Are you the reporter or the architect?
My, those little ears pick up a lot. The Cult of Good will die heroically preventing a world-class heist. Since we will be the ones performing the heist, our deaths will obviously be fake. But have no fear. There will be many other deaths tomorrow...and those will be quite real. I'm afraid these questions of yours put you in a position not unlike a long-tailed tabby in room full of rocking chairs.
"A superhero's job is to protect.." Sorry, I can't take you seriously...I overheard you say that tomorrow the Cult of Good will be dead--I should be so lucky--what did that mean?
A superhero's job is to protect society. Don't blame me if society is a horrible, corrupt joke.
It's a lot more fun than fighting violence with pamphlets. That voicebox of yours is a hoot. Say "I'm wearing no underwear"--it'll be funny.. You do know you're evil, don't you?
Hasn't anyone ever taught you that fighting violence with violence solves nothing.
You're not a super-hero. You're not even a hero. You're a scary, sick, fake who made a big mistake. You killed someone very special to me..
Hello, Rachel. I'm Selina.
You know, my name's not Spooky. It's, it's Rachel.
"Save the City?" I don't want to save the city, I want to move! Listen, I'm sure the computer disc is pretty fascinating and I can't thank you enough for the little weird gold thingie, but..
The Mission is happening tonight..It's up to you to...to save the City...
Oh no, not a computer disc. A computer disc? Oh man, come on, what do I look like? I'm not a crime- fighter, I'm not a detective, what, I'm supposed to find some "clues" on this disc. I can't...
And I...I..want you to know our secrets..
For when the..Uh, yeah, thanks, a little gold piece of...gold. Uh...
For when the time comes..
I heard what you said, Spooky. I can't believe he shot you...
You're not strong. You're scared..scared that someone like me will see right through you. Whatever the Cult of Good was, it's not anymore... You don't have to listen to me, just listen to you..
Can't you understand--I got tired of being a woman. I wanted the respect that only a cape, boots, chestplate, and a mechanical spear can bring..
Whatever you say...Sis.
I don't want to hurt you, Catwoman. Yet. After tomorrow, you can do anything you want, but please, just stay out of sight for the next 24 hours. I won't stand by and watch my leader get all emotional over an animal like you. I warn you, don't tempt Captain God when he is angry. Let is complete our mission in peace.
Ask me another one--
What's the name of your child's best friend?
How did you know our nanny's name is...Lucky guess!
You mean, "Consuela" is a good mother..
I'm a good mother!
Did you just say "girls?"
You Career girls have no idea what we go through.
You Housewives have no idea what we go through!
Kelly, get to work on those new uniforms. I'm not running a summer camp here..
What if I were to say "Your Wife"-- as in does she know of your touching mentor-student relationship with the post-Bicentennial babe working the roulette wheel?
What if I were to say "You're Fired?"
Oh Frank, I'm not anti-male, I'm anti- you. Believe me, there's a difference. Kelly is designing new uniforms for next week. Pay her and thank her. And is it a rule that the hottest places on the planet have the coldest air conditioning. There's something out there called 73 degrees, look into it.
Hey, you're anti-male.
Can I be frank, Frank? Your entire existence is sexual harassment. I accept there's not much you can do about it.
Oh, what? I offer you a job in implied exchange for physical favors and suddenly it's "sexual harassment..."
There you are, Selina. I've been thinking..I have some.."positions" opening up..
Yeah, as in born before..Ooh, I suppose it's "sexual harassment" to give a woman a compliment. Sheesh. Come on, gentleman...
You know, Kyle, you're still pretty hot for a pre-Bicentennial babe...
What's the good news?
You're late. I've got some good news and some good news. I'm giving you more hours and the new uniforms came in.
I'll let you know.
We have to do something. What can we do to help, Selina?
Have you seen the Oasisburg Police? They drive golf carts with little red sirens.
Okay. Let's get serious. Of course I know the Cult of Good is not good. Ever since I saw what they did in Atlanta, it has been my mission to expose them. I've followed them to Oasisburg and soon will have enough hard evidence to bring them to real justice. That computer disc could be the final piece to the puzzle. This isn't just a story, Selina--another damn Pulitzer--this is my life.
You know, now that I hear myself tell it, I'm thinking maybe both of you are messing with me. What, you get the Helmet Monday through Thursday, then Brock takes it for the weekend...
Then there's you, Louis, sneaking through back alleys and surprise visiting me at my home..Both of you have been way too frisky from the get- go. I'm actually a pretty amazing person--funny, smart, attractive when I get my sleep--but you two had no way of knowing that-- when I met you both I was basically a morose, depressed amnesiac incapable of any human feeling. The only reason one of you wanted to go out with me is because you knew I was Catwoman.
Not too cool...
Lose the smile, Mr. Good Reflexes. We were having a pretty okay time the other night--good food, good conversation--some Catwomen show up and it's "You need cab fare?; I got to go to my Hideout--Oh, I'm sorry, I mean "warehouse."
Fine, fine, at a later date, I'll be more than happy to talk about my perverse psychological complexities with the one who's not the creep. But for now, I'm drilling inside your brains...I bring up the whole Catwoman thing for one reason. I bit Captain God in the hand and the next day you both show up equipped with big bandaids and wobbly excuses-- "My grandfather is inventing a new kind of blender.."
Some reporter I am..all this time my story is right there in front..I have a lot of questions.
I'm not through. This will come as a shock. Again, to one of you. I am Catwoman. The Catwoman.
Hey, architect--she's joking. Right, Selina? Selina?
You can't figure me out. You're the strange one..
I give up. I give up.--I can't figure you out. Not gonna try.
You're scaring me, Selina. Do it some more.
Go together? Sure, why not? Another date with someone who could be an insane messenger of death for all I know. No offense. Hey, lean over, let me smell your breath..Say in a deep voice, "A superhero's job is to protect..."
I'm afraid last night was the last straw of our city's tourists. The Mayor, in his finite wisdom, is throwing a "Month of the Woman" luncheon ball for the public this afternoon to try and calm everyone down. I thought maybe you and I could...
Hey, I thought...
I was doing my job. At the risk of sounding egotistical, I didn't become the best reporter in the world sitting by the phone. I was chasing tail all night--I was not spying, intentionally, on your hot and heavy date with "Brock Leviathan, architect." I can't believe he ordered white wine. You do know white wine is not real wine...
I said I saw you last night. What were you doing hiding in that alley, running off when the superhero alarm sounded...
I'm having a hard time picking up your signal this morning--What did you say?
Like you don't know...
About the same. Thanks for asking...Damn blender. Okay, I can't stand it anymore, I'm dying to know--Did you try on some whiskers last night and hit a 7-11 along with all those other women? You had to have thought about it--a Catwoman for a night?
Nothing. How's your hand?
Did you try to kill...
Oh, do you turn around every time somebody just shouts at you?
Yes, you shouted the words "Captain God" at me for no reason...
You turned around!
Hey, Captain God!
I thought you'd like a ride to work. You don't own a cat, do you?
Next time, call...
Well. I'd let you come in, but the place is a mess...
No, of course not. You're listed. Not the hut, exactly, but the rest of..
Ah! You scared me! How did you know to come here! Have you been spying..
Ah! Ah!--God no, don't tell me you're one of those women who are attracted to ruggedly handsome and brilliant architects..
I am. Dinner with Brock Leviathan...
I was wondering, if you're not doing anything tonight...
But of course you are.
Oh the hand--my grandfather is inventing a new kind of blender and..You know, I realize I've never officially introduced myself...I'm Lewis Lane.
Oh now this one is mine...
I actually got some memory back last night.
Sorry, I get carried away. Once I become interested in someone, I can't stop trying to figure them out...Amnesia victims are challenging..
Most articles focus on the first half of her name--describing some feline monster. I want the woman of Catwoman. After all, if it was a man dressed as a cat, the story would be on page 23--just another loony. Oh, I want this one. I want her bad..
Yeah, she's okay.
What is it with women and Catwoman? Men have the courtesy to punish the weak, but women love punishing the strong. Don't get me wrong--this Catwoman is a terrifying, subversive menace to everything this community stands for and she must be stopped. It's just, I like her a lot.
I don't know what came over me.
A genuine woman of mystery in Oasisburg. Amnesia. Bulletholes in exposed stomach badly concealed with body make-up. Beautiful, intelligent eyes that have no business in "Frank's Fun Palace" or anybody else's Fun Palace for that matter..
"I'll go out with you." Now go get me these old newspapers...
What if I say I'll go out with you, so you can have all these great daydreams, but then never actually talk to you again?
It's seeing-eye dogs, ma'am. If I let the cat stay, will you go out with me?
But I'm blind.
I'm sorry, ma'am, there are no pets allowed in the library...
Trust me, you won't have to.
I don't know if I can do it alone.
Do you always listen to what your mother says? Selina. Something you choose your life. Sometimes your life chooses you. Save the day..
But I'm not a hero. I'm nobody's heroine..I'm nothing. You've said so yourself many times.
Yes, you do. You have to go rescue all those people...
Mom, not now! I, I don't know what to do..
I hate it when you let your hair just hang like that...you have such pretty eyes...
They're going to attack Frank's Fun Palace!
Yes, I'm pretty amazing. You should see this...It came this evening.
I never thanked you..the arrow..the motorcycle..the computer disc..You're so different from what I..and so the same.
What kind of name is "Brock Leviathan?"
Mom? Oh Mom, I messed up...
It's because I didn't come in. I live in the Hut, now. I meant to tell you..See ya.
Where were you last night? I didn't hear you come in.
Because she asked me--and I couldn't very well turn her down. Don't you remember-- of course you don't remember--that "Hag" is the one who brought you to that hospital in Gotham City. For what it's worth-- currently not much--we owe her your life...When I think about a single woman in Gotham City--amnesia is probably the best thing that could happen to a girl like you...Oh, don't forget your visor.
Uh, it's just--that woman out there-- that horrible Hag. She's the one who keeps following me on her creepy little scooter--And now she's built a hut in the back..Why did you...
Don't sneak up on me...
Oh, so now even the keepers of the city don't meet your standards...You're late.
I'll take your abuse, but it's way too early for the sanctimonious Cult of Gag...
Pretty good...Mom, I don't want you to think I don't appreciate...letting me stay, getting me the job--I've been a mess. I'm still a mess. It's just...we have to start having a different conversation. I can't take..
It's funny, I've heard of giving up finding a man and raising a family to pursue a career. And I've heard of foregoing a career to start a family-- but I think you're onto something new, Selina. "Absolutely nothing"-- Has a ring to it. I think it could catch on...How's that for sarcasm?
Is every single thing out of your mouth since your "accident" have to be a monotone mumble of cheap sarcasm?
Oh Mommy, you're embarrassing me.
Oh, I forgot to tell you, you're on a diet...The fact you're still reasonably pretty is the one thing you got going for you.
A hearty breakfast is the start of a great morning...
Yes, Mother. Dear.
You going to talk all day?
You're the One. I thought I told you to stay hidden behind the couch, CAT! You've torn the unit apart. You've driven a great leader insane...
The kicks..the rush..you mean, like pulling heists..faking your own deaths..killing innocent bystanders...like Mexican angels. I know you're a woman. Do you?
I'm not sad, no, I owe the Captain my life. It's just you think you want to help prevent crime, but you realize that's too complicated. It's a lot more fun to punish crime. Then after a while, you don't care what's a crime and what's not, what you became a Warrior for. You just want the kicks. The rush.
You seem sad, Spooky.
We met on the Internet. The Captain put out a cryptic message calling for a new order of crimefighters. We don't even know each other's true identities...
What's it like being a superhero? It must be frightfully exciting..How did you guys all get together?
Oh pooh, come now. If you turn me down, I just might throw a fit..you know how us girls can be..
I'm sorry, Miss, one of us needs to keep surveillance...
What's a powerful man like you standing all alone for? Dance with me?
I would appreciate a little space. Thank you.
I don't see anybody in there but you.
I know. But it's an emergency. Somebody dying. Okay?
This is one way.
Where do you think you're going?
Hey Buddy! Can you let me pull over? Give me some space to pull over.
I won't let him. He belongs to me now. Bye, sweetie.
I know he's there! He doesn't even have the balls to pick up the phone!
I'm sure he'll be heartbroken.
He ran out on me to be with you? Well fuck him! Everything worked twice as good without him. We didn't need him then and I don't need him now.
What are you doing on Theo's line?
Matter of fact I did have a kid once. But he's a lot better off with his father in Milwaukee.
Don't you have children?
I'm sorry for whatever's happened to you but we're definitely not the right people to do you any good.
Do I hear a woman's voice?
Was someone in an accident?
Any trouble, we whip out our Treasury Department badges -- show them the wire I'm wearing and read them their rights. Theo seizes the Krugerands as evidence. Naturally they start negotiating. Offer to give us up somebody else. And we listen. Take notes on who bought what stolen art and tell them we have to clear it with our superiors at Justice. We pick up their passports -- escort them to their room and leave them all in the bathroom handcuffed to the plumbing.
I am not! Fuck you! Theo's a genius.
Oh. Seems yours girlfriend is casting doubts on your expertise.
What if they do question the authenticity?
Wake up. Make a right at Ocean Avenue. The hotel's a few blocks up on the left.
This is my conversation. I'll say what I fucking please.
Have you got to tell her your life story?
That's all we need. Better let me drive.
Be careful. There were people in that crosswalk.
I'm sorry. You'll do all right without me. Keep my share.
You gotta just look the other way.
Then whose is it?
I know you feel awful but it's not your responsibility.
Look -- I've got the lives of maybe three innocent people hanging on the end of this line.
He's right, Theo. She might not be around to back up your story. You could end up in the middle of this.
This Mercedes of yours, what's it look like?
Will you two cut it out?
Did you have to tell her my name?
Theo wants to talk again.
She can't! It's busted. Now hand that on back!
I'm not finished. Under other circumstances I'd gladly go out of my way. I don't understand why you just don't phone some other person.
I know where it is. Give me that phone back.
How was I in the wrong?
He's at it again. Like that night at the Emerald. This piece of Euro-trash is slapping shit out of his little wife in a back booth -- so Mr. Good Deed here has got to step in and pound the fucker's head into the wall. Meantime "Wifey" recovers enough to pull off her high heel and nearly take our hero's eye out. It took six stitches.
I'm trying to help somebody. Okay?
Me, he won't stay on the phone with for five fucking minutes without bitching.
Say something ...
You couldn't hurt me. But it's the principle.
I didn't hurt you.
So what? What could be important enough to put your hands on me?
You could've made me lose my call.
What was that for?
I'll explain later. I'm sort of on hold.
Who's on the phone?
I'm not staying in here with him puking all over the place. Get this door open!
We've already got an ambulance on the way. Don't try to get out.
No reason to kill innocent bystanders. Shit. I can't hardly move my neck.
It was the fugitive in the Chrysler that caused this. We were trying to overtake him.
You could've killed us.
Are you guys all right?
I want the gun emptied. I want to see all six slugs tossed up here. And then I want out. That's all. <u>OUT</u>!
I told you I should've cuffed him.
I'm the one they'd be looking for.
Which is why we had a lot more to worry about than the law. These are people who don't worry about reading you your rights.
Mind letting me make the best of a rotten situation?
Can you make him stop!
Yeah, I suppose getting whacked has got to be one of your best ways to die. Particularly if you're not expecting it. You don't know what hit you.
Bear right till the fire road ends. It's not far.
How do we get back to the freeway?
Any time you decide to let me in on it.
Only I was sloppy. I let you take me out. That was quite a humiliation.
Or relieve me of it later.
In case you crapped out it was my job to go after that briefcase.
Nels reporting in. Sit down where you are. Arms folded.
You almost brain me and lock me in a fucking trunk and you're on my side? You stupid fuck!
You got it wrong. I'm the one that's on your side.
Lady, don't let him do it!
See for yourself, federal agent, U.S. Treasury. On the job.
I'm going to level with you officer.
Let's have your license, mister.
Why would I do that?
What'd you do? Tail me from Brentwood?
They'll wait. Meantime, raise the lid.
I got to get going. An agent is showing me a house up on Broad Beach in ten minutes.
Now that'd be a misdemeanor.
I'll see that he stays calm. Pack the money up and put it in the trunk.
You never miss a trick.
Put those away. We can't have marks on his wrists.
Now turn around. I'm going to cuff you.
So Theo and Nels will appear to have whacked each other out and we never existed. A thing of beauty. Jesus, the shit you come up with!
I prefer to have the sucker die at a more convenient location. Once Nels arrives with his backpack full of goodies.
You can tell she was really worried about me.
With all those holes Nels pumped in I knew you wouldn't suffocate.
It took you long enough to get my ass out.
What else did you expect him to say? Do it, Theo -- or give me the gun.
Look, I've got a wife. I don't care if either of you ever get caught.
He's seen both of us now.
Sure -- and they record your voice. And later on we all get slammed for kidnap and murder. That's out!
Okay, okay, Lenore, calm down. Either let me call the school or better yet, the F.B.I.
What do you keep making me out to be?
In any event, whatever occurs you do not belt anybody.
Got your badge?
It's rolled up in the tube on the floor back there.
Let's hope so. Once you come out and okay everything I'll give Caitlin the sign that she can bring the painting on over.
I improved on the fucking original.
First off, this Mr. Chow Yen doesn't speak a lot of English. The girl with him will interpret. There will be a third person to accompany you into the men's room where you can take count. I hope you know Krugerands better than they know a <u>Hockney</u>.
Go ahead then. I'm covering the receiver. She can't hear.
We still gotta run the drill before we walk in that lobby.
<u>You're</u> doing all the talk.
That's illegal. You want us pulled over? I'll turn around at the corner if you'll shut the fuck up.
Make a "U" and go back.
And stop with the directions.
Shit. There's the hotel. You overshot the driveway.
If you know that just back off.
Just like they say; no fucking self control.
I don't like anybody laying their hands on me.
That's what I deserve for listening in the first place.
Just hand up on the bitch! Fuck you, madam. And goodbye!
Will you relax? This in no way affects our business. Go on.
What do you mean tip the cops? Is the man a lunatic or what?
Wait! I hear her breathing now. There, she just picked it up again.
That's your "rep."
That was definitely out of line and totally unprovoked. I heard you were a hitter.
Not this minute.
We have never worked a gig together but I am a firm believer in preparation. So let's go over this again step by step.
It's taken care of.
You switched license plates?
Give me 20 minutes at least.
We've had our share of fuck-ups but it's going to work out fine.
I was worried about you. Both of you.
I'm still in my cab -- jammed up in traffic. Are you there yet?
There's a taxi stand here. I can meet you.
He took it like a man. Toss him in that drainage ditch.
Don't fuck around. Pop a cap in him.
We'll toss it when we make the blind curve.
Lose the hardware now.
What am I supposed to do?
Nels, don't let that cop pass you.
I'm doing fine. Theo wants to deal.
I thought you said you could handle him.
I told you ... sooner or later you'd have to trust me ...
Sure, like I'm gonna take advice from you.
My fence in San Francisco ... 305-4410. Maurice. Don't take less than a third on the face value of those bonds.
I don't want it.
I've got ... one last number for you, Theo ...
-- The phones, Theo. Don't leave any of them behind. The cops could pull up a record of all our calls and -- find you.
Turns out you did me a favor. You're looking at a rich man.
I picked the wrong number when I chose you ... didn't I?
Toss them -- one at a time. I don't want to lose count.
Five ... six.
Pull over! Pull over someplace.
It's going to be some fucking snowstorm.
You won't live to see it.
Think about what's going to happen to your valuables when that trunk flies open at 75 miles per?
Take your hand out of there. Slowly.
Know what else is in here?
Local lawyer for Dominican dealers. Off to buy a half interest in a mall in Granada Hills on their behalf.
Exactly who was this Oberfeld?
Some nice fantasy you all cooked up for me.
That's a skill you acquire when you do fantasy phone sex for a living. I must've had thirty regulars salivating at 4.99 per minute.
Just sitting here listening to her voice does it to me all over again. No harm admitting I fell in love with the sound of you.
Nothing but CDs in there. I thought maybe you'd like some Celine or Whitney.
Both hands on your lap.
He let the fucking cop out -- but he won't --
I'm handling it.
That's how it's going to be.
That's not good enough.
I'm going to cuff you and leave you in that house. It may take awhile but you'll be found after we're long gone.
Only one way to find out.
Maybe your friends already accomplished that chore for us.
You're the man with the gun.
Which one of us is elected to do the deed?
We can't leave him to repeat anything.
What's your point?
He might've heard everything we said in the car.
That's a reasonable possibility.
The cop in the trunk -- he could still be alive.
What's really on your wicked little mind?
How about "later?"
Sooner or later you'll learn to trust me.
Yeah, I was waiting for that suggestion.
We had a backup plan. But I knew you'd come through for me.
You've had a lot of fun with me today. What would you have done if I hadn't responded to your call?
As a child I hated being told how sweet I looked. That angelic little face wasn't me at all. I had to hurt people to prove to them they had the wrong image. Sometimes words were enough -- but I wasn't beyond inflicting physical pain in order to be taken seriously. I enjoyed seeing the shock on their poor faces when they realized who I was. That same look you gave me when I turned the gun on you.
Who'd ever think, to look at you?
I need a break. I've been on a marathon run ever since I had the misfortune to strike up a conversation with you.
Why are we stopping?
Developer ran out of money years back. I'd hate to think about what's living in there.
I had it in my mind what you'd look like. "Her," I could've painted. <u>You</u>, I'd be afraid to turn my back to mix the colors.
Think you could do a picture of me?
That's where this Chicano correctional officer first taught me to slap paint on a canvas. I could copy any fucking thing he put in front of me.
They did some great job of reforming you.
I was sentenced to a youth camp out here when I was fourteen. We cleared some of these same roads.
Any idea where you're going?
The money, Nels ... ?
Wonderful feeling of security knowing your adversaries are both crippled and unarmed.
I can't hear. Now there's a siren. They must be in an ambulance. What about the money? Nels?
Some people fall apart in a pinch. But you shine.
That's why we're turning off onto a fire road.
They'll have units blocking us up ahead.
Do you think they'll walk away?
Dial him up. We need him to run interference.
What's Nels' number?
No, there's a police car way back there. See it, in the distance coming around the turn? The van is blocking it now.
It could be a fire. This is Malibu.
Let me talk to him. Hold the phone to my ear -- but don't nudge me.
Did you hear that?
Plus names, addresses and I.D. for the lot of you. We're in this together and I need to know who my partners are. In case I ever need to roll over on somebody.
He wants 75 back.
Inform him the fee is seventy-five large for your return. All parts intact.
I'm still okay.
Then scream for me. A repeat performance. Let me see how easy you can turn it on. Scream! I want to hear you scream for me!
Stop talking like that!
Yes I would. Not kill you. But blow off a few toes, absolutely. I'm entitled to that as retribution. It'll help you to remember me in years to come -- every time you put on stockings. They must have prosthetic toes by now -- with little nails on them you can polish --
You wouldn't --
Only in the leg or the thigh. You'd live but you just wouldn't wear shorts.
You could've hit me.
Now you're starting to sound like a victim again.
You're enjoying this too much.
I think it was my tone of voice more than anything else that sold you. And when you thought I was being kicked around, I wish I could've seen your face.
I guess I ought to stop seeing woman as victims.
Naturally you didn't learn your lesson.
You were at the Emerald that night?
Oh no, you were too busy trying to keep some Croatian from slapping the shit out of his girlfriend. She showed her gratitude by almost taking your eye out with her spiked heel.
You, I would've noticed.
I knew you were a loser the first night I laid eyes on you.
What's that supposed to me?
A typical fuck-up.
Those shots your associates got off may not have done him too much good. That's on their head. All I did I was put him there.
I don't hear him moving around anymore.
Granted, the cops are not an alternative. Certainly not with one of their own still locked in my trunk.
The one thing you don't want is to attract the police.
I'm not trying to lose them. Nor am I exceeding any speed limits.
He seems to be headed for Topanga.
Absolutely. And Topanga Canyon has a hell of a lot of potholes if I recall.
Do you have to point that?
We might hit a bump and the gun might go off. Ever see that Tarantino movie -- where Travolta blew that guy away in the back seat -- purely by accident?
You won't shoot me. That's not your style.
Not all. They already have a third. The question is how much of that are they willing to give to get you back?
He seems to think he's entitled to it all.
Tell them I'm keeping what's left. I earned it. I probably killed some poor bastard for it.
Assure them that you're being well treated.
There's no way out for you. You have to deal with us.
Your friends are probably still on the line. Pick it up and say hello.
Shit. You couldn't be in much worse shape.
Who's in back?
You knew about me.
Nobody's easier to con than a con man.
Why pick me to be your "mark?"
Sit completely still with both hands on the wheel -- until they get here.
There was <u>no</u> cop involved. Oh shit! Fuck!
I thought it was inspired.
And all that crap about your driver being murdered by a cop --
As they say -- no good deed goes unpunished.
I got what I fucking deserved. I had it all. I could've kept going!
They always pick Rachel up early on Thursday.
You timed that beautifully.
Plus they'll remember you going after his daughter at school.
At least one.
The video cameras will put you with him in the bank, and I'll bet there were enough witnesses.
Damned if I know.
Jack Oberfeld in person. Did you kill him?
The guy with the transplant.
It belongs to the man you took it from. Or should I saw <u>stole</u> it from?
Whose money is this?
There isn't any such person.
You're not Lenore Oberfeld.
The rest of the money is here in the car. Why don't you come and get it?
Why are you telling him that. Are you crazy?
He had a gun. I have it now.
Hand me the phone.
For Christ sakes don't point it at me. We want to get Rachel out of there in one piece. I'm waiting for the girl. Her mother wants to talk to her.
Somehow I got along better with you on the phone. It's all there isn't it?
They put their hands all over me.
So far they're keeping their part of it.
They tortured us. And you're going to let them have all that money?
We've almost got your husband and your daughter out. So don't get any ideas.
You're going to let them get away with this?
Because a lot of people would've gotten killed. Probably all the wrong ones.
Why didn't you just shoot them?
Now I have -- it's a long story.
Include me in that.
She'll never be the same. None of us will.
She'll be with you soon. They're pulling up. They'll realize I kept my part of the bargain.
Rachel was terrified when I left her. I could see it in her eyes.
Shit. I'm sorry.
Just start walking. Come on. Walk to me.
Rachel -- Oh my God.
I'm sorry. You've thought this out better than I ever could. I'm ready now.
Once you're in the car with me she's sure to come to us.
All right. Now that you explain it I see that you're right.
She's a child. She might panic. She doesn't know me. She might not come to me. She might just run.
Why can't it be her?
They won't allow that. It's one at a time. And you have to be first.
Yes. But I want Rachel to come with me.
Can you walk?
Don't start thinking about it. Is the tape off?
I can't do it.
She's next. In two or three more minutes she'll be free.
I'm not leaving my daughter behind. Not with them.
Lenore -- you promised you'd follow instructions. We're almost there. Simply get out when they slide the van open and walk to me.
Put the man back on.
Now you're going to do just what I tell you to. No discussion. No hesitation.
You're all three of you in that van?
He's in back. Lying face down. They haven't hurt him anymore -- but he was crying. I never heard Jack cry before --
She's awake but she hasn't spoken. I don't know what they did to her. I don't want to think about it.
That's coming off. How about the girl?
They wrapped tape around my wrists and ankles.
Are you okay?
Thank you. God bless you for helping us.
They're tied with duct tape so they can't speak -- but they seem to be --
I'm in possession of the bag he was carrying. And I'm in a position to negotiate. What about your husband and your child?
God, if he doesn't come back --
I had a little encounter at the bank and our Mr. Transplant ended up under the wheels of a Chevy.
What did you do?
Lucky for them they didn't.
They dragged me downstairs. I thought they were going to kill me.
Hi Lenore. It's me. I got you back. Courtesy of Star 69. Are you hurt?
Try what you did before. It worked before. I won't talk anymore.
No. I hear them. They're coming upstairs. They know!
Don't panic. I might be wrong. Hello? I guess I was wrong.
Downstairs. There must be an extension. Oh my God --
Or somebody else there is listening in --
Yes -- I think so. Another crossed line?
Did you hear that click?
Did you jiggle the phone?
When they first started questioning Jack -- he answered them in that tone he usually reserves for me. And they began beating him. And I watched. And I didn't feel anything ... What kind of a person am I?
You can't give up.
Because you're probably the last person I'll ever talk to.
Why tell me this?
Jack hasn't loved me for years. And now I'm afraid she's turning out to be like him. So cold and distant. I've let him make her like that.
I've got a lot of respect for you too. For the way you feel about your family.
But I guess we haven't really met -- have we?
Yeah, sure that's me. Ask anybody.
Theo, I want you to know, you're probably the most decent man I've ever met.
It won't be him.
If it's the tall man -- he had one of those hair transplants. Tufts, you know. It still hasn't grown fully in. The other one is from the islands. Braided hair -- very dark.
I might still get there first. The lights are with me. How would I identify the guy who shows up at the bank?
The front door slammed. Someone went out. There's a different car starting.
What's going on?
Don't talk. Don't talk!
How come everybody turns out to be a crook?
To hide it from the I.R.S.
You're doing what you can. Why's all this money stashed?
Oh my God. I heard her scream again. What are they doing to her? Why can't I do anything to stop them?
I'm pretty good at signatures myself.
It's not hard to do. I do it all the time.
They've still got to be able to sign his name.
Jack was only at that branch once when he took the box years ago.
They'll recognize it's not your husband.
I'm not supposed to -- but I do. Millions in cash and bearer bonds.
Do you know what's in that box?
Don't say that.
Not a chance.
Jack will negotiate with them. He'll identify the right key and give them the information they need to gain access and they'll let Rachel go.
I'm cutting across to Bundy to Brentwood. That bank is our best bet. If anybody shows up I could follow them.
Even if you found us -- what then?
Which means you can't be more than five or ten minutes from here.
I heard someone pulling in behind the house. I heard Rachel screaming and then she stopped all of a sudden. I don't know what they did to her.
I'm not doing too well. What's the matter?
Black Mercedes, 600S.
What do you mean?
Wait just a minute. Our luck has changed.
The City National on San Vincente.
The one in Brentwood.
You said they wanted to get into some particular safety deposit box?
When Jack sees they've got Rachel HE'LL tell them what they want to know.
I should've put them out of the car and come sooner!
It's not your fault, Theo. You tried.
He's copying down my license -- for all the good it'll do him.
I'm trying to.
Don't say anything. Don't alarm them. Just go!
She's gone --
I've got to ask somebody.
Does she wear glasses?
That's not her.
Does she have a red ribbon on that ponytail?
Great. Stay with me. There must be a hundred kids out here.
I can hear you again, clearly.
Lenore, I'm here. I'm getting out.
I'm making my turn. I see the school up ahead.
Make a right. You can't miss it.
I've lost you. You're gone. I can't hear anything.
There are cables overhead. Hang on. It'll clear up.
You're breaking up. I can't hear you. Theo?
That makes two of us.
I have no right to ask for help. I've never thought of anybody but myself.
I'm about ten blocks from the school.
I wasn't always like that. I don't think I was.
A price on everything.
I didn't mean to. It's just the way I am.
Shit, stop with the money! I never asked for a nickel. I was just doing this. And you have to fuck it up with a price tag.
I'm afraid if I stop talking I'll lose you. Just name any reasonable amount and it's yours.
Lady, you don't have to keep up a running commentary.
I suppose if you're a struggling artist you need a patron.
They say my work is somewhat derivative.
I didn't mean to insult you. You're an artist.
Our house always needs touching up.
Sometimes I paint.
What do you do for a living?
Well you did.
I'm sorry if I caused you to lose your business deal.
I sure as hell got my wish. She doesn't exist. So maybe you reached the appropriate person after all.
And that was the end of it?
It never healed. I called her a lying bitch and everything else and I hung up on her. "Click." You don't exist.
I didn't mean to open up any old wounds.
Hey drop it, okay?
I don't know. I hung up on somebody else a long time ago, and later on I wished I hadn't of.
Why didn't you do what your friends wanted and just -- get rid of me?
I don't know. 80 or 90 minutes, tops.
How much time do you have left on it?
Where's the fucking recharger cord? Must be in her car, dammit.
I'm not looking to get myself killed. I just hope the battery on this phone holds out.
They say she resembles me -- dark hair, ponytail, very dark eyes. They all wear the same uniform. Please. Be careful. The man driving the car must have a gun.
Tell me what she looks like.
Forget about us. Just save Rachel.
What do you think I'm doing? I'm on my way to the school like you wanted.
What are you doing now?
I kind of dropped them off. They were getting on my nerves.
What about the others?
Hello? It's just me and you again.
Will you please speak to me! Theo?
Just hang on. I've got a life of my own.
Why isn't anyone answering me?
She would if she heard my voice on the phone.
Even if I got there first she wouldn't go with me.
26th off Wilshire.
Forget who I am. Where's this school located?
He's right? Look, don't try to put blood on my hands. You've got one hell of a nerve siding with him!
He's right. You'll get my whole family killed.
They don't know you. They won't listen.
Let me call the school -- tell them not to let her go.
The bigger man is driving our Mercedes to the school. Rachel will recognize the car. She'll get right in.
Bottom line! There's nothing I can do for you but tip the cops.
They know Jack will give them what they want once they have her.
What do they need her for?
Rachel, my daughter. She's an honor student at Parker. My God, she's only nine.
Stop throwing names at me.
Rachel! They're going after Rachel now -- and I can't stop them.
I'm with two friends now.
Don't move around. You don't want to puncture a lung.
They just walked out. The smaller man -- he must be Dominican or Haitian -- he kicked me so hard. I felt a rib crack but I never made a sound. It's starting to hurt now -- real bad. A throbbing. I can't even take a deep breath.
I'm fine. She's back on. Hello? I'm here.
I can't stay on this line. I'm picking people up. I'm already overdue. Hello?
I hear them coming upstairs. I won't be able to talk for awhile. I have to lay the phone down and pretend to be asleep. So don't talk. Don't say a word or they'll hear it.
Fine, no tunnel. Are you still with me? Hello?
I'm in traffic. There's no place to turn.
No don't. You could lose me for good. Don't go through that tunnel.
Listen, there's an overpass coming up. I may lose you for a minute.
Then they took the Mercedes away -- with his body in it.
Oh man. These people mean business.
Elliot -- our driver. The officer put his gun to the back of Elliot's head and -- fired. It was so quick.
He pulled us over as we left the Riviera Tennis Club. Claimed we'd run a stop sign. And when Elliot was reaching for his license --
What makes you say that?
One of them <u>is</u> a cop.
The cops could trace this call back to you.
No! No police. They'll know right away the authorities are looking for us. They'll kill us. We've seen their faces.
Okay. The police are gonna need your full name and address.
No -- nothing.
Well isn't there a number on the goddam phone?
I have no idea. They put us in the back of a van with blacked out windows. The shutters up here are nailed shut.
Where'd they take you to?
They tortured my husband. Made him give them the pin numbers of our accounts. Once they get what's in the safe deposit box they'll kill us.
Why would anybody want to hurt you?
Then hang up! Do it!
Don't lay this on me!
Because you know you'll be killing us.
Oh won't I?
You won't disconnect.
I am not involved. Keep clicking your little wires. You'll get someone else. Good luck.
I realize you don't want to be involved.
Don't expect me to tell you who I am.
My name is Lenore Oberfeld.
I don't want to know --
My name is --
You're the one who's not to be believed.
I don't believe you.
You're not doing anything to me -- because -- listen to this carefully -- I do not care.
I'm sorry. I'm so sorry to do this to you.
Well I'm not tolerant of being bothered with this bullshit story when I'm about to make the most important score of my life. This has gotta be some "put-on," right?
They gave me pills to make me sleep. They didn't realize how much Seconal I'm used to -- that I'd have so much tolerance --
Sure. And they left you upstairs to make phone calls?
They're holding my husband downstairs.
Who smashed the phone?
They smashed the phone. I've been clicking the loose wires together hoping it'd make a connection.
What'd you do! Just pick my number out of the air?
You may be our only chance. I don't know if I can do this again.
Lady, try making some sense.
I can't talk any louder. They might hear.
And what're you whispering for?
Will you let me explain!
No. <u>You</u> don't understand! You caught me on my cellular on the way to pick up some business associates. And I've got no time to screw around.
You don't understand.
If this is some sales pitch I'm not buying --
I've been trying to get someone -- anyone. For hours ...
Do I know you?
I'm afraid I've used up all my good deeds for the day.
Don't leave me here to die -- Theo, please -- you can't let me die --
Didn't we play this scene before?
Oh God -- Oh no -- Help me -- Don't let me -- Die.
You mustn't hang up.
Who is this?
Thank God -- thank God I've got you.
What are you planning to do when they got here? They'll kill us. They'll kill Rachel.
Yeah. Why don't we?
Put the girl on.
Seems like it.
Next I want to see Rachel. Put her on the phone before she gets out so her mother can tell her exactly what to do. Keep her calm. Tell her you're fine and that she can join you in this car.
I'm backing up.
She's yours. What are we waiting on?
Stop the crying.
I'm tying it up in a bundle now. Where is she?
That's how it is. You see her approaching you toss out installment one.
Are you trying to panic the women?
I'm opening the side door. She'll step out. But before she gets in your vehicle I want to see the first installment put down in plain view. If it isn't there I'm shooting her in the back.
I won't let 'em.
And they run straight to the cops who start looking for our van.
You pull up -- collect your first installment. Then you let the daughter go. When she reaches me, I'll dump out another third. Same action. I back up again -- you pull forward. Satisfy yourself it's there. Then we do it one last time. The final exchange. And we go our separate ways.
Soon as Mrs. Oberfeld is in my car I'll toss out your first third. Then I'll back up 200 feet to behind the public restroom.
And not a nickel.
You'll still have the girl and the husband.
Thanks for the sound advice. Now ask the woman to get out of the van and walk over here. Alone.
Be careful in disposing of them. You'll have to discount 'em. You'll be lucky to clear a hundred and a quarter.
My pleasure --
Her husband said there'd be one million eight. So nine hundred to you.
I'm not accepting criticism today. Now don't make me lose count. There's already a half million in this portfolio.
You should've done all this before.
I make my end of the cash at 184,000. Now I'm trying to figure out the bonds. What the face value is.
It's in the process.
Then just wait. I'm counting this all out and deducting my share. While I'm at it you can be getting that tape off the lady. And her little girl.
We're waiting on you.
We're waiting for the light to cross the highway. It just changed. We're in a grey van. It reads "<u>Noble Carpet Cleaners</u>."
I still don't see you.
I don't know what you mean.
You already tried to pull one little number on me -- and it didn't work.
Talk to the man.
I don't want to see her later. I want to hear her <u>now</u>.
You'll see her.
I don't need to relax. The woman. Put her on.
Fucking "A" it is! Any argument and I'm out of here.
It's your call.
I don't want you within two hundred feet. Park down by the lifeguard station. Nobody gets out.
I'm three quarters of the way up the lot behind the concession stand.
We don't see you.
I'm here. Where are you?
I wish it had never been invented.
You're getting a lot of mileage out of that cellular.
Beats yelling our brains out across some parking lot.
Take my number. When you see me -- call me and I'll walk you through the exchange. It's 308-9962 -- Repeat it back.
Got a phone in that van?
She's somewhat damaged in the shipping. But nothing makeup won't cover.
Tell the lady to relax. Tell her I can't wait to meet her in person.
There's no loyalty at the expense of my own ass.
I want you all in one vehicle. Your van. If I see anybody else cruising around I'll keep going. No second chances. You can kill them and I'll keep what I've got.
We can be there.
It should take me twenty minutes. Where are you coming from?
What time frame have you got in mind?
A large stretch of empty space with no place to hide. Temescal Canyon parking lot.
It's a nice day. How about the beach?
Where do we meet?
Granted. But I don't believe they're grieving enough for their chauffeur to piss away their own futures.
There are no guarantees in this life.
You're walking away with a clear fifty percent and a guarantee nobody can afford to I.D. you.
You can rely on them to keep quiet because this is undeclared money that could land Jack there in federal prison. He can't afford for you to get caught and have this briefcase appear as evidence.
You're up on your details, aren't you?
They saw you kill the driver.
You got time on your side. Pretty soon they'll be missed and we'll have the law up our ass.
You're making it too easy.
Whatever you say.
Fine. I want half. Plus the release of the family.
I'm self employed. What kind of cut did the hairy one have?
Who are you working for?
Following which we will have a serious question and answer session with your girlfriend.
I'm in awe.
Nobody can do anything right but you!
Brilliant -- unless they were close enough to see the cab pull away. In which case you just warned them.
Them. They won't be expecting us.
Who were you talking to?
Stay put! I know my way around.
Somebody better tear this down before it falls down.
Are you busting my chops or what?
Don't underestimate me. I've got original ideas of my own. Warhol got famous doing a soup can. What would you think of a cellular phone done in acrylics?
In your dreams.
Probably as close to the Getty as I'll ever come. Unless you care to be my "patron," Nels. You wouldn't be the first successful thief to become a patron of the arts.
At those prices I'd just as soon your cabbie didn't get a look at me.
None of your business, but it's in the cab. That's all mine. When we take from them, we divide, eighty-twenty.
Where's the backpack?
I've got a couple of spare pieces stashed under the floorboards.
Better haul ass if we're gonna be inside to greet them.
Believe me. They couldn't be busier at the moment.
How do you know?
We're gonna get there first.
And make ourselves a hell of a target.
Have your cab wait at the foot of Cisco -- we'll ride up together.
Take the Getty Center exit -- make a right onto Cisco. It'll be a narrow winding road. You can't miss the house. It's a mansion built back in '29 -- Spanish -- boarded up since the quake.
Where do I turn?
How far off are you?
Take the 405 south.
In the hills above Sunset. Just below the Getty.
Sweet revenge plus maybe a bit of vigorish off your end.
Not without the name of the contact who can discount the bonds. I may need to pry that information out of her. What do you stand to gain?
You could always disappear with what's already in your backpack.
I can see the benefit in that.
My compensation! Somebody still owes me -- big time!
That bitch. What's keeping you from taking off?
Intelligent question, Nels. I believe she had plans for both our bodies to be found in close proximity.
Why would she want me to think you were on ice?
I suppose you're in your taxi?
What does it take to kill you?
I thought you'd know me by now.
Nels! Guess who? A friendly voice from beyond the grave.
You couldn't be calling at a worse time, Nels.
I just strolled out of the emergency room while they were admitting Rodriego.
Then you can sue the cops. Collect from both ends. Tighten your belts. Here it comes. Ready?
And I end up in a fucking neck brace for life!
From what I can see you're a pretty fair wheelman. There's a hairpin coming up -- that's the place for it. The cops'll plow right into you.
You want us to get ourselves killed?
Tailgate me. I'll jam on the brakes. You go into a spin to avoid an accident and cut them off.
There's two police cars now.
You researched me. You know where I live. She'll be waiting for you there along with your split.
It's in your interest, Nels, since the additional passenger in my trunk -- an LAPD officer is probably carrying a few bullets in him traceable to the piece you're carrying. Tell the man.
The fuck I will!
You're going to have to see to it that both lanes of this road get blocked.
Sure, I end up with some cash. And a lot of bonds I don't know how to dispose of.
And if you ditch us we get zilch.
If he pulls me over he gets all the proceeds plus Lenore here.
I think I've already had a "quickie." Thank you.
If you're looking for a quickie all you've got to do is ask.
Okay Nels, you can always keep what you've got and haul ass leaving the lovely lady for me to worry about. I'll bet she can be friendly when it's in her best interests.
Call me "Nels."
Who am I talking to?
Better reassure him.
What's he doing? Answer me!
Tell the truth, I was going to take a much needed leak.
Was I picking on you? How come you pulled in back of this fruitstand?
Why are you picking on me for?
Mind if I have a look?
Something was rattling around. Some loose tools.
If you weren't going for a spare what were you doing?
Only you <u>don't</u> have a flat.
Since when did you guys start changing tires?
Let her tell you.
If her kid or her old man have been harmed we've also got nothing to talk about.
If you've already killed her that's fine. I'll keep the bonds and the cash. We got nothing to discuss.
There's no lady here.
Let me talk to the lady again.
Who are you?
Don't be afraid to say hello. Your friend with the recent transplant is in no condition to deliver that briefcase. So I've taken on the task.
From here on, I dish it out.
You sure know how to take a lot of punishment.
Who the fuck you kidding? Send me money!
Let's have your name and address. The government will want to send you a letter of commendation.
Where is this canyon house where you're supposed to hook up?
The 405 is coming up.
Your partners are currently armed and we're not. Our edge is that they don't know we're in touch.
I thought so.
What kind of Treasury Dept. business is this?
Very official. 259-7881, if I recall.
Can I make a quick call?
You've got a <u>phone</u>?
I already called for an ambulance.
Whatever you say.
She's not a girl, Col --
When a girl runs out like that, she generally wants to be followed.
You could always make it up to her.
She wants me to tell you go fuck yourself.
Who knows the secrets of the human heart.
Then why doesn't she?
He's what she should run a mile from.
So who's he?
It takes all types.
So let's call this the usual.
Well, you get to say, The usual, Col. Things like that.
Is that good or bad?
So can we consider you a regular, sir?
Fucking men, Col --
Yeah. Fuck it, Dil.
Fuck it, is what I say.
Saw it, Dil.
You see that, Col?
No. Tell him to go fuck himself.
Stop it, Dil --
Don't want any of those looks, Col. They don't mean much.
He's back, Col
Ask him yourself.
I would expect he does.
Maybe he wants something.
An excellent quality.
Good thing in a man.
He's still looking, Col.
That's what he said. Jimmy.
I've no thoughts on the subject.
What do you think his name is?
He agreed that he was.
She wants to know, sir, do you like your hair.
Now he can look.... Ask him does he like his hair, Col.
Now, that was a look.
What would you call it?
Saw that one.
What you think?
Just cut his hair, you know.
He gave me a look.
See what, Dil?
See that, Col?
Yeah. I heard. You hear, Jimmy?
No, I won't fucking fuck off. Said I'm sorry, didn't I?
Fuck off, Dave.
Look, I'm sorry.
Take your fucking goldfish, too!
Don't chuck my clothes out!
Fuck off back to Essex!
Don't throw my clothes out the window!
Take your clothes.
Please, Dil --
Sure, Dave --
Hey, Stirling fucking Moss --
He's going to take his foot off slowly, David. Then you're to go home, like a good boy. You hear me?
Cunt. Scrag-eyed dyke cunt.
See, they get the wrong idea.
It's him, isn't it?
Who the fuck is he?
You heard me --
Don't be like that --
You fucking did.
You fucking promised.
C'mon, babe! You know what I like... Easy!
Fuck off, Dave.
It's a simple question.
What's that supposed to mean?
Consider it how you like. Just get that bloody tart out of here.
If I was her I'd consider that an insult.
Whatever it is she does for you.
Do it on your own time, Paddy.
She's not that either.
No, of course not, she's a lady.
She's not a tart.
Is that his tart? Does Pat have a tart?
He wants to know do I mean that.
Do you mean that?
Jim, Pat, Mick, what the fuck. Long as you remember you're not at Lords.
It's not Pat. It's Jim.
Bloody right I do...
I'm sure you do, Mr. Deveroux.
Off his wages.
Not in my experience.
Sorry won't bring the bloody thing back, will it, Mr. Franknum?
Your Pat just cost me two hundred quid.
Two hundred quid, Mr. Deveroux.
How much did that frame cost, Mr. Franknum?
What's that supposed to mean?
As the man said, it's in my nature.
Can't help it. You're doing time for me. No greater love, as the man says. Wish you'd tell me why.
Please, Dil --
Fergus. Fergus my love, light of my life - -
I'm sorry, darling. I keep forgetting the leap year. What am I supposed to call you then, Jimmy?
I've got to keep you healthy, Jimmy. I'm counting the days. Two thousand three hundred and thirty-four left.
Stop it, Dil --
Sorry, love. Now, the white ones are magnesium supplement --
Don't call me that --
Got you the multivitamins and the iron tablets, hon --
Yes. Say hello to Col --
Meet Col --
Where am I to go, Jimmy?
You will, Dil
Will I see you again?
Not if you go.
Am I in trouble, Jimmy?
You've got to go now, Dil --
Tell me what she wore.
And she used her tits and that cute little ass to get him, didn't she?
She was --
I asked you a question, honey -- were you there too --
What happened to Jimmy?
It's my name, Dil --
What was that she called you, Jimmy?
I know you're lying, Jimmy, but it's nice to hear it.
And you'll never leave me?
I'd do anything for you, Dil.
Say it again.
What would you do for me?
Love you, Dil.
Then say it.
Whatever you say, Dil.
Tell me you love me.
I like you, DIl
Give me a bit more, baby, a bit more.
I like you, Dil --
You like me now, Jimmy?
Let them come then.
Let me go for fuck's sake, Dil -- or they'll be here
Try and go, then.
Got to be somewhere.
Let me go, Dil
See, I should blow you away, Jimmy. But I can't do that. Yet.
Just don't kick Dil and she'll be touched. Be nice to her and she'll be yours forever.
Stop it, Dil --
See, I fix on anyone that's nice to me. Just the littlest bit nice and I'm yours.
He asked me to see were you all right.
Wondered why you came on to me like that when you gave me the look.
Don't leave me tonight. Might kill me, too.
Don't you want to kill me?
I suppose I tried.
You killed my Jody
It was you...
In a manner of speaking.
You killed my Jody?
Did you hear me?
I got the order to shoot him. Before I could do it he ran. Ran into a tank and died.
Are you listening?
You knew my Jody?
Lifted him from a carnival in Belfast. Held him hostage for three days.
You knew my Jody?
You knew which man?
Dil Can I tell you something? I knew your man.
Don't go like that.
I will be.
Are you all right, Dil?
Only in times of extreme stress.
Are you supposed to take that many?
Prescription. For my condition.
You heard what I said, Dil?
You mean that?
You got to forget you ever saw me, Dil.
No! Tell me everything, Jimmy.
I was trying to get out of something.
So tell me.
No! I'm going home...
Stayed all day in that room thinking every noise was you. There's something you're not telling me, Jimmy.
I had to go to work!
Thought you was fooling me. Thought you was leaving me.
Told you to stay in the hotel!
I'm going home!
Dil! Dil! What the fuck are you doing here?
Look on it like a honeymoon.
Why are we going here, Jimmy?
Sorry. What you doing?
Don't call me that --
You like me better like this.
So it's true, then?
No. Want to make you into something new. That nobody recognizes...
You want to make me look like him...
You're no good at this, Jimmy.
And you wouldn't leave me?
You'd like me better that way, Jimmy?
It's a secret.
Want to change you to a man, Dil...
A girl has to draw the line somewhere --
You said anything, Dil
No. Sit down.
You want another haircut, baby?
You got the keys to the shop?
You'd do anything for me?
You do something for me, Dil?
More than that.
Do you like me even a little bit?
I'm not sure.
What you doing, Jimmy?
And you're not going to tell me more?
You could say that.
She from Scotland too?
She own you, Jimmy?
Why shouldn't I be jealous?
Shouldn't be, Dil
I'm sorry, you know that? I'm really sorry.
She's the thing you had to tell me.
It's her, isn't it?
You following me?
Dil, this is Jude.
What's wrong, Jimmy? Tell me what's wrong --
You gonna tell me why?
Why, honey --
Not at all, honey.
So I got it wrong, then.
He'd bring me carnations.
Only if you kiss me.
Okay. Be a good girl and go inside.
Don't be cruel.
Should have stayed a girl.
I miss you, Jimmy.
No. Can't pretend that much.
Don't ask me in.
Am I becoming repetitious?
Stop it, Jimmy.
There's Dave. He knew too.
I'm working on it.
Are you pretending yet?
Won't be quite the same though, will it?
That's true.... Your soldier knew, didn't he?
You can always pretend.
Kind of wish I didn't.
I should have known, shouldn't I?
All right, they do.
So they do know.
Details, baby, details.
Thing is, Dil, you're not a girl.
Can't help it, Jimmy. A girl has her feelings.
Know what I didn't know. And don't call me that.
Know what, honey?
Do they know?
Will you meet me again?
Ask to meet me again.
Make it up to me, then.
So I'm sorry.
That's a start.
Kind of liked you as a girl.
I know that.
I didn't mean to hit you.
You think that's wise?
Ask me to meet you again, Jimmy.
I said stop it.
Made me feel all funny inside.
My, oh my, Jimmy, how gallant.
Yeah. I care, Dil.
You mean that?
Sure I do.
Do you care, Jimmy?
And the fact that you didn't know is basically the fault of yours truly. And even when you were throwing up, I could tell you cared.
See, I was always best looking after someone. Must be something in the genes.
Never said a truer word.
You're something else, Dil, you know that?
Apologies, my sweet.
Give it over, Dil --
Don't call me that.
Got your note. So let's kiss and make up, hon.
What you doing here?
Never let the sun go down on an argument, Jody used to say.
Come on, Dil --
I have to talk to her, Col --
Tell him it hurt --
Tell him to stop messing Dil around --
He looks after me. He's a gentleman too.
All the time.
Did he ever tell you you were beautiful?
Told you, I'm superstitious.
I'm wondering why you keep his things.
I'm thinking of your man.
What you thinking of, hon?
No, depends on nothing.
Depends what it is.
The thing is, can you go the distance?
Can't leave me now.
I'm superstitious. Drink.
What is this?
If I told you, you wouldn't believe me.
You mean that?
Something I heard someone say once.
What does that mean?
Want to look after you.
So what do you want with me, Jimmy?
Did he dance with you?
He did sometimes.
Is this an obsession of yours?
Did he come here too?
Shouldn't you be in mourning?
A real gentleman...
Didn't think I could.
But you can t stay, you know that?
Like you're concerned.
You say that like a gentleman.
I think you do.
What do you think?
Do you miss him?
Can't think. He's dead. In Ireland. He was a soldier. Went there like a fool.
What would he think?
Are you jealous of him?
You want to know how I kissed him?
Did you do that to him?
Shouldn't I go?
Tell me about him.
As different as it's possible to be.
He was different.
Tried to. Sit down, will you?
He lived here with you?
Doesn't know the meaning of the word.
Must be in love to manage that.
Sorry. How'd he drive with his neck in a brace?
Jesus fucking Christ.
Someone out there.
What'll it be?
Would you like a drink?
I'm not on my own, am I?
Tough guy, huh? Are you going to be all right on your own?
Piss off, Dave!
The things a girl has to put up with.
You want one?
You got a special friend, Jimmy?
Make a pass or something. Isn't that the way it goes?
Now's the time you're meant to do something, isn't it?
What's that about?
The one you gave me in the Metro.
Give me that look again.
Half-five. At Millie's.
Now, if you asked me to meet you tomorrow, it would really drive him insane.
But I'm not cheap, you know that? Loud, but never cheap.
No, I didn't --
You want me to ask you in, right?
You can't leave me then, can you?
He's getting up.
God no. I'm a hairdresser.
You on the game?
He wants me to perform for him.
What was that all about?
Yes, thank you.
You all right?
They all get the wrong idea.
What was that?
Hi. You forgot your bag.
Not you. How quaint. How old-fashioned and quaint. Isn't it, Col?
Everybody wants something.
He's Scottish, Col.
Tell her I'm very happy with it.
Don't know. Who is she?
That should make her happy.
And what's it like?
The accent, I suppose.
How'd you guess?
What's it to you?
Doesn't the water get to your nails?
What's his name?
Guy I work with.
In a way.
Someone recommend you?
Absolutely. Long as she can keep it. Isn't that right, James...
A girl has to have a bit of glamour.
A bit heavy on the powder, isn't she, Jimmy?
Well, maybe you'll get lucky. Someday.
Don't go looking for it, Dil.
Absolutely. The younger the better. Doesn't come your way much, I suppose.
That's good. I'm glad. Young love, as they say.
Ever so nice. Aren't you, Jimmy?
Yeah. Just checking. He being nice to you, Dil?
Jimmy, is it? Do you know me, Jimmy?
You know her, Jimmy?
What was it?
Need to lose myself awhile.
Do you now.
Need to go across the water.
So what do you need, Fergus?
All right, then. I like to be wise.
That's wise, Tommy.
You'll notice I've asked you nothing.
You're back in the pink, Tommy? How're you keeping?
Get that thing off me, Fergus --
I sincerely hope so.
I take pride in my work.
You a handyman, Fergie?
Who's the old geezer?
Stay late at your work tomorrow night and I'll bring you the gear.
You may be right.
Fergus, I think you don't trust me.
And what if you don't?
We'll be on the other side. We'll move when you do.
And what happens then?
You were made for this.
You know what. Go.
And what if I say no?
Aye. Then we'll leave her be.
And then you'll leave her out of it?
Come on, Fergie. A rehearsal.
Of course. I forgot.
Och, you do, Fergie.
But, then, I don't have a choice.
So I suppose a fuck is out of the question. Keep your head down, Fergus. No sudden moves. And not a whisper to her. You'll be hearing from us.
She's nobody. She likes me.
Jesus, Fergus, you're a walking cliche. You know we won't leave her out of this. But I'm glad to see you care.
Leave her out of this.
You're never out, Fergus.
No way, Jude. I'm out.
We've got some plans here. And we'll need a Mister Nobody to execute them.
What do you mean?
You vanished quite effectively. Became Mister Nobody. And you've no idea how useful that could be.
No, what is the thing?
But you know what the thing is, Fergus?
So you did fuck up.
He ran. I couldn't shoot him in the back. I tried to catch him. He made it to the road and got hit by a Saracen.
We had a court-martial in your absence. They wanted to put a bullet in your head. I pleaded for clemency. Said we should find out what happened first. So what did happen?
Maguire and me got out by the skin of our teeth. No thanks to you.... What you think of the hair?
Eddie and Tinker died.
No. That's the last thing I'll do. You never asked what happened.
Leave me alone, Jude.
What was it, Fergus? Did you blow the gaff on us or did you just fuck up?
Doesn't matter if he's hot. Just cover the fucker up.
Put that thing back on him, Fergus.
Leave us, Judie.
Someone's got to do it.
Tough work, that.
Fucking do. I had him all over me.
You don't know that.
Hasn't moved for twelve hours. Go on. Have a heart.
He's all right.
Poke him or something. See if he's still alive.
Have a look at him.
There are certain things I wouldn't do for my country.
Did you give him it?
Hey -- what's he like?
Do you want some food?
See does he want some.
Kind of suicide, isn't it?
So it's on the street.
Whoever hits him'll be hit, if those men are any good. And I presume you can't get in.
Good. So what do you think?
You being cynical, Hennessy?
Thank God for that.
Doesn't matter who he is. He is what we would call a legitimate target.
Who is he?
It's a knocking-shop. Tres discreet, huh? He visits his ladies on Tuesday and Thursday nights and Saturday mornings. His security's in the car beyond.
So what do you think that is, Hennessy?
Aye, I do, Peter.
And you know what'll happen if you fuck up again, don't you?
Just a girl.
And who is she?
And what's she like between the sheets?
Fuck you, too --
I'm getting emotional. And I don't want to get fucking emotional -- you understand, Hennessy?
I know that.
Should blow you away, you know that?
He's at home.
And who's Dave when he's at home?
I thought it was Dave.
Who'd you think it was?
So it was you all the time.
Okay. You're a good man, Fergus.
You sure about that?
Would make me feel better about it.
Why do you want to do that for?
Request permission to guard the prisoner tonight --
Shut up, Jude. You best get some sleep tonight, Fergus.
Good. I was beginning to have my doubts about you for the last few days.
I'm a volunteer, am n't I?
You OK about that?
Because tomorrow we might have to shoot him, that's why.
And do you know why?
You'll have minimal contact with the prisoner, do you hear me?
Back in a minute, Jody
Are you all there?
I told him.
So he knows your name?
You're on duty. Keep your fucking mouth shut. Go in and get some sleep.
It's nothing. He's just got a sense of humor, that's all.
What the fuck is this?
It's your decision.
You're his keeper. If you don't mind him seeing you, I don't mind. But you're the only one he looks at.
He described me down to a T. Knows what Jude looks like.
And anyway, he's seen our faces.
The poor whore's suffocating in the heat.
Why would you do that?
Request permission to take the hood off, Tommy.
Made the front page. They'll move now, the fuckers.
Do you want a cup of tea?
Give him a cup of tea.
Used to run the mile, you know -- four times round the cricket pitch -- what was that game called?
Got to catch me first --
I said you bastard -- stop --
What you say, faster?
You stupid bastard --
But if I did... you wouldn't shoot a brother in the back --
You won't run.
So if I ran now, there's no way I'd beat you, is there?
Cricket's in the halfpenny place.
Faster than cricket?
Hurling's a fast game, isn't it, Fergus?
Stop that talk now --
Cause you're my friend. And I want you to go to the Metro --
I'm glad you're doing it, do you know that, Fergus?
Take the hood off, Fergus --
Me? No, I'm not good for much...
Not a lot of use, are you, Fergus?
Tell me something, anything.
What does that mean?
I thought as a child. But when I became a man I put away childish things...
When I was a child...
And the scorpion. No. Tell me anything.
Like the one about the frog?
I don't want to sleep. Tell me something.
Go to sleep now.
I don't know. Just help me. Give me a cigarette.
How can I?
Stop it --
Go to Millie's Hair Salon in Spitalfields. Take her to the Metro for a margarita. Don't have to tell her who you are. Just tell her Jody was thinking --
I told you not to talk that way --
Take the whole lot. I won't need it.
Take her picture. C'mere.
I don't know her.
See if she's all right.
But they will. As sure as night follows day. They have to. I want you to find her out. Tell her I was thinking of her.
Don't think that way.
If they kill me --
Want you to do something, Fergus.
Don't know her.
Present tense, please. Love her. Whatever she is. I'm thinking of her now, Fergus. Will you think of her too?
You liked her?
Dil wasn't trouble. No trouble at all.
She can't help it.
Some kinds of women are...
No. Not bad. Women are trouble, you know that, Fergus?
Is it bad?
It's as simple as that?
That you guys shouldn't be here.
What do you believe in?
Depends on what you believe in.
I've often wondered how you do it.
We don't look on it like that.
Oh, yes. We do a tour of duty and we're finished. But you guys are never finished, are you?
But you fellas never get a break, do you?
We got simple tastes, you and me.
My special friend.
Having a pint in the Metro, and Dil's having a margarita.
Having two pints in the Rock.
Like having a pint in the Metro --
You lack imagination, Fergus. Think of something more alluring.
Having a pint in the Rock.
Come on, man. If this shit was all over.
Doesn't matter where.
Where would you most like to be now, man?
Jody's always right.
Don't be so sure.
See? I was right about you.
'Cause you're kind. It's in your nature.
Means what it says. The scorpion does what is in his nature. Take off the hood, man.
So what's that supposed to mean?
Thanks. I know that wasn't easy for you.
I'm sorry. Didn't mean to offend you, Fergus.
Shut up, would you?
Thank you. I had a case of the clap two years ago. Crabs in Ulster. But all in all it's served me well.
Give us a break.
Now put it back in.
These things take time, Fergus.
Hurry up, would you?
Now, that was worth waiting for.
Well then, you're going to have to take my dick out for me, aren t you?
Take it easy, now. Just go slow. Down by that tree.
My pleasure, Jody
Nice to meet you, Fergus.
I'll bear that in mind.
So when you come to shoot me, Paddy, remember, you're getting rid of a shit- hot bowler.
Toffs' game there. But not at home. .
Well, in Antigua cricket's the black man's game. The kids play it from the age of two. My daddy had me throwing googlies from the age of five. Then we moved to Tottenham and it was something different.
Best game in the world.
That game where a bunch of paddies whack sticks at each other?
Ever see hurling?
Best game in the world.
And you play cricket?.
"Go back to your banana tree, nigger." No use telling them I came from Tottenham.
Shouldn't take it personally.
It was a job. So I get sent to the only place in the world they call you nigger to your face.
Why did you sign up?
Can't. Once I signed up.
You could have said no.
I got sent.
What the fuck were you doing here?
What the fuck am I doing here.
Okay. That nice lady. Meets me in a bar. I'm saying what the fuck am I doing here anyway. She buys me a drink. She holds my hand. I'm looking at her saying I don't like you, bitch. But what the fuck. Maybe I'll get to understand.
She's a friend of mine
You fuckers set me up. That bitch --
So what were you fucking around for, then?
Don't I know it.
You make a nice couple.
Suppose you could say that.
She your wife?
She's mine. Anyway, she wouldn't suit you.
Don't you think of it, fucker.
She'd be anyone's type.
My inside pocket.
Ah, c'mere. I want to show you something.
She's not my type.
Didn't look like that to me...
I didn't even fancy her.
No, what's the funny thing?
And you know the funny thing?
Shut the fuck up, would you?
Only that you're all tough undeluded motherfuckers. And that it's not in your nature to let me go.
What the fuck do you know about my people?
I'm talking about your people, not you.
What do you know about my nature?
Not in your nature.
Why can't we?
And even if he doesn't die -- you can't just let me loose.
I'm not a gambling man.
You want to bet?
They won't let him die.
They're going to let that guy die. And you're going to kill me.
What makes you think that?
You're going to have to do it, aren't you?
What is it now?
So I've noticed.
But I won't. We're more polite around these parts.
Well, I could say the same about you.
No. It's the truth.
You trying to hurt my feelings?
Nope. Not handsome at all.
Five ten. Brown eyes. But you're no pinup.
No fucking way.
Now, if you took the ropes off, I'd be able to feed myself.
Can't we take it off?
Please, man, I'm suffocating in here.
I can smell her perfume.
How did you know it was her?
Thank you, handsome.
Yeah. And the brown eyes.
You're the one about five ten with the killer smile and the baby face.
So, what do I look like?
I seen your fucking face.
How is it a farce?
This is a farce, man.
Can't eat through a canvas bag.
What do you mean you can't?
Eat something, would you?
He believes in the future --
I said shut the fuck up --
He's a good soldier, Jude.
You're heading for trouble, Fergus --
You shut your face --
Have you no feelings, woman?
It was fun while it lasted.
Thought you liked me, bitch.
See, if we took the hood off, we'd have to shoot you. As it is, you've got a fifty-fifty chance.
Whatever you say, Jude...
Come and get me, soldier --
People. They could be looking.
I never know nothing.
You never know.
Who gives a fuck.
Tell me, Jody
And you know what?
Never pissed holding a girl's hand, Jude.
You'd know I wouldn't run off.
What if I did?
You don't know me, do you?
Don't run off, Jude.
No, fuck the bear. The name. Jude. And it's June. Jude in June.
The teddy bear?
Give me the fucking shooter!
You're crazy --
Give me the shooter, Jude --
No, we are.
That fucker's dead --
That true, Fergus? You in love?
Leave him alone, Peter. He's in love.
Shut the fuck up, Jude.
You're crazy. Don't let him, Peter.
First her husband, now her -- she hoodwinked you! She batted all them big eyes and you went 'n fell for it - like a egg from a tall chicken! Here! You want? Here -- it's yours!
What are you talking about?
You greenhorn -- you half-witted, thick-skulled, hare-brained, greenhorn! They wuz both too smart for us!
You know what I mean -- the envelope with the stamps. I want it.
The letter? The letter ain't worth nuthin'.
All right -- where's the letter?
I'll tell you what, fella -- you want t' find me, you jus' turn 'round -- from now on I'll be right behind you.
Where are you, ol' buddy?
Now Dyle, you listen to me -- my mama didn't raise no stupid children. I know who's got the money 'n I ain't disappearing till I got my share -- 'n' my share's growin' a whole lot bigger ev'ry day.
What makes you think they're even interested? It's only a quarter of a million -- it'll cost more than that to fix up their bookkeeping. As a taxpayer --
Never mind -- I'll go by myself.
Reggie -- listen to me --
Then say it.
I heard you, I heard you.
I said, tell me to go to the --
All right, prove it to me -- tell me to go to the Embassy first thing in the morning and turn in those stamps.
What a terrible thing to say. How could you even think that?
The truth, now -- was it my hide -- or the stamps?
And that's all the gratitude I get for saving your hide.
I'm sorry I thought you were the murderer, Adam -- how did I know that he was as big a liar as you are?
Here, give it to me.
You didn't have to chase me so hard --
There's not a reason on earth why you should.
Can I really believe you this time, Adam?
Reggie -- trust me once more -- please.
You lied to me so many times --
Reggie -- listen to me!
Don't be a fool! He's Carson Dyle!
He's -- with the C.I.A. -- I've seen him at the Embassy.
Reggie -- please believe me!
Then who did? You're the only one left.
But I didn't kill anybody.
I'm through listening to you!
Reggie -- why won't you listen?
Don't be an idiot!
But Tex didn't -- he still thought -- !
I'm not Dyle -- you know that!
Why? So you can kill me too? Tex is dead, I've seen him! He said Dyle did it!
Reggie -- stop!
Tex? You mean he's here, too?
It's all right -- I don't think Tex does, either.
It's hopeless -- I don't even know what we're looking for.
Stop grousing. If we find the money I'll buy you an international conference all your own. Now start looking. You take this side and I'll poke around over there.
Well, you're right there. Ten minutes ago I had a job.
I know, but this is all we've got left.
But Charles' appointment was last week, not --
Five o'clock -- Thursday -- the Garden -- it's got to be something around here.
It's Thursday today -- and it's almost five -- come on!
as outlined in report number three- nine-stroke-five-two of the Western Hemisphere Conference held on March 22 -- no wait! It was last Thursday, five o'clock at the Jardin des Champs- lyses! Adam -- that was it! The garden!
Well -- it was a place -- a street corner, I think. But I don't -- Hold it. I'm on.
There is? Well, I can't say I think very much of a silly law like that. Think, Reggie -- please think -- what was written in Charles' notebook?
Of course there is!
Nonsense. We didn't steal it. There's no law against stealing stolen money.
That money's not ours, Adam -- if we keep it, we'll be breaking the law.
Think, Reggie, you've got to think -- it may be what we're looking for.
I think it only said where -- but I can't --
With whom? Where?
Grandpierre asked me about an appointment Charles had -- on the day he was killed.
Can you remember anything at all?
You're right. I remember Grandpierre looking through it. But there was nothing in it -- at least, nothing that the police thought was very important.
Nothing's wrong. I think I found something. I was snooping around Tex's room and I found this in the waste basket. I've stuck it back together.
No, it's all right. What's wrong, Adam?
Reggie -- I think I've found -- are you on?
No -- last time I said "I love you, Alex."
Yes, you told me.
I love you, Adam.
Go to bed. You've got to be at work in the morning. There's nothing more we can do tonight.
Well, I guess that's it -- dead end.
Heroin -- peppermint-flavored heroin.
The tooth powder. Wait a minute -- could you recognize heroin just by tasting it?
It still doesn't make sense, but it isn't worth any quarter of a million either. Have we forgotten anything?
The letter --
To the apartment -- it matches mine perfectly.
Electric razor -- comb -- steamship ticket -- fountain pen -- four passports -- toothbrush -- wallet -- key -- what about that?
I mean, it's there, Reggie. If only we could see it. We're looking at it right now.
Lord, you're stubborn.
Let's look anyway.
But everyone and his Aunt Lilian's been through that bag. Somebody would have seen it.
I sure am. Get it.
Lord, you're stubborn.
Where's that airlines bag?
I've looked, Adam -- you know I have --
I just heard from him -- he's still hungry. That means killing Gideon didn't get it for him -- so he's narrowed it down to us. You've got it.
I think we were wrong about Tex having the money.
What is it?
There's no time -- I'll call you in the morning.
If the police find him first they're not very likely to turn over a quarter of a million dollars to us, are they?
You're going to look for him -- now?
That wraps it up -- Tex has the money. Go back to bed -- I'll let you know when I've found him.
Relax -- you're gaining.
I know why you're not taken -- no one can catch up with you.
Well -- come on.
When you come on, you really come on.
No. The doctor said it would be bad for my -- thermostat.
Aren't you allowed to kiss back?
How do you think I got here?
Oh? Did they do that sort of thing way back in your day?
Pretty good, huh? I taught them everything they do.
I thought maybe you wanted me to see the kind of work the competition was turning out.
Why do you think I brought you here?
You don't look so bad in this light.
It's all right -- look.
I'm not hungry -- isn't it glorious?
What's the matter?
What about it?
Oh, you should see your face.
Don't you know I'm having a tough time keeping my eyes off of you?
It's a toss-up, I can tell you that.
No -- I guess not.
What would you like me to say -- that a pretty girl with an outrageous manner means more to an old pro like me than a quarter of a million dollars?
All that marvelous rejection -- you knew I couldn't resist it. Now it turns out you were only interested in the money.
How was I leading you on?
Don't you dare to be civil with me! All this time you were leading me on --
I think that's what you ordered.
I could eat a horse.
Yes, but --
Is there a Mrs. Canfield?
It's simple. I like what I do -- I enjoy doing it. There aren't many men who love their work as much as I do. Look around some time.
-- there has to be a darn good reason for living the way you do. I want to know what it is.
Oh, come on!
Yes, I'm leaving now -- goodbye.
The envelope -- imagine that. Mrs. Lampert, listen to me -- you're not safe as long as you've got these stamps. Go to the Embassy right away -- wait, I'd better meet you halfway -- it's quicker. Now, let's see -- do you know the center garden at the Palais Royal? -- yes, by the colonnade -- as soon as you can get there. Hurry, Mrs. Lampert.
No, I do -- it was the stamps on that letter Charles had with him on the train. They were in plain sight all the time, but no one ever bothered looking at the envelope.
Calm down, Mrs. Lampert -- please. Does he have the money?
The one who said he was Dyle's brother -- of course I'm sure -- Tex wrote the word 'Dyle' before he died. He's the murderer I tell you -- he's the only one left! You've got to do something!
Just a minute, Mrs. Lampert -- you'd better give that to me slowly. Who's Adam?
None whatsoever. Please, Mrs. Lampert -- be careful.
Are you sure there's no mistake?
I told them what you said -- about this man being Carson Dyle's brother. I asked them what they knew about it and they told me -- you're not gonna like this, Mrs. Lampert -- they told me Carson Dyle has no brother.
Go ahead, Mr. Bartholomew -- I'm listening.
Mrs. Lampert? -- Bartholomew. I've spoken to Washington, Mrs. Lampert --
Yes -- ?
You're in an ideal position -- he trusts you. Besides, you said yourself, women make the best spies.
Me? Why me?
I don't know -- but I think you'd better find out, don't you?
Oh. Then who's this one?
No, Mrs. Lampert. His death is registered with the War Department in Washington.
But no one actually saw him die.
No, Mrs. Lampert.
Maybe he really is Dyle. He could still be alive.
We're anxious to know who this man is -- the one calling himself Dyle.
Oh, stop it. What do you want me to do?
That's the spirit.
Well, if I'm going to die, I might as well do it for my country.
I wouldn't advise that, Mrs. Lampert. You'd better consider what happened to your husband when he tried to leave. Those men won't be very far away -- no matter where you go. In fact, I don't even see any point in your changing hotels. Please help us, Mrs. Lampert. Your government is counting on you.
I'm sorry, Mr. Bartholomew, but nothing you've told me has changed my mind. I still intend leaving Paris -- tonight.
C.I.A., Mrs. Lampert. We're an extension of the wartime O.S.S. It was our money and we want it back.
But what has all this got to do with the C.I.O.?
We know what happened from the bits and pieces we were able to paste together -- but we still have no proof.
But if they stole all that money -- why can't you arrest them?
Carson was dying so they were forced to leave him. They finally got back to the base, made their report, and waited for the war to end. Only Charles couldn't wait quite as long as the others. He beat them back to the gold, took everything for himself and disappeared. It's taken Gideon, Tex and Scobie all this time to catch up with him again.
Scobie was able to travel, but Carson Dyle was clearly dying, so they --
Please go on, Mr. Bartholomew -- what happened then?
Have you any idea what these things cost over here?
May I have a cigarette, please?
By burying it, and then reporting that the Germans had captured it. All they had to do was come back after the war, dig it up and split it five ways -- a quarter of a million dollars with no questions asked.
Steal it how?
Yes. The five men. They were, of course, your husband, Charles, the three men who showed up at his funeral yesterday, and Carson Dyle. But something went wrong and they were unable to locate their contact. It must have been at that point that they decided to steal the money.
Go on, please -- five men -- $250,000 -- the French Underground --
Can I at least keep the onion soup?
Mrs. Lampert, I really hadn't planned on spending the entire night here.
Gratine, choucroute garnie, salade de pommes -- et un ballon de rouge.
In 1944, five members of the O.S.S. -- the military espionage unit -- were ordered behind the German lines for the purpose of delivering $250,000 in gold to the French Underground. The five men --
I suppose you're old enough to have heard of World War Two?
Dead? Mr. Bartholomew -- maybe you'd better tell me what this thing's all about.
I didn't see any point. Dyle's dead.
Mr. Bartholomew -- why didn't you tell me you knew about Dyle?
You mean you've known about him all along? Why didn't you tell me?
There's only one Dyle connected with this affair, Mrs. Lampert -- that's Carson.
That's not Carson Dyle.
Well -- he's tall -- over six feet -- rather thin -- in good physical shape, I'd say -- dark eyes -- quite handsome, really.
He's hardly my Mr. Dyle.
What does your Mr. Dyle look like, Mrs. Lampert?
Dyle, or whatever his name is.
He has a gun, Mr. Bartholomew -- I saw it.
Yes, but I lost him. I really did it quite brilliantly. I'm beginning to think women make the best spies.
Were you followed?
What did you want to see me about, Mr. Bartholomew?
Yes, where? -- in fifteen minutes. I'll be there.
Where are you now -- can you meet me? Do you know Les Halles?
You mean he might have -- Mr. Bartholomew, I'm catching the next plane out of here -- I'm not going to sit here and wait for someone to make chopped liver out of me!
I don't know who this Mr. Dyle is, but it's just possible we were wrong about who killed your husband.
Like I said, Mrs Lampert -- I'm afraid you're in a great deal of danger. Remember what happened to Charles.
Because they're still here.
Well, there you are! Charles had the money with him -- so whoever killed him has it -- they have it!
We've no proof, of course, but we rather think so, yes.
Wait a minute -- you think those three men killed Charles, don't you?
Here's where you're to call me -- day or night. It's a direct line to both my office and my apartment. Don't lose it, Mrs. Lampert -- and please don't tell anyone about coming to see me. It could prove fatal for them as well as yourself.
Look for it, Mrs. Lampert -- look just as hard and as fast as you can. You may not have a great deal of time. Those men know you have it just as surely as we do. You won't be safe until the money's in our hands. Is that clear?
Or a safe deposit key, a certified check, a baggage claim -- you look for it, Mrs. Lampert -- I'm quite sure you'll find it.
You mean it's just lying around someplace -- all that cash?
Nevertheless, Mrs Lampert -- you've got it.
Mr. Bartholomew -- if I had a quarter of a million dollars, believe me, I'd know it.
Oh, you've got the money all right -- you just don't know you've got it.
Thanks very much.
I believe you.
I'm sorry it's impossible. It's the truth.
That's impossible. You're the only one who could have it.
But I don't have it.
And I'm afraid we want it back.
Oh, I see.
Then whose is it? His or theirs?
Oh, Mrs. Lampert! I'd love to see you try and convince them of that! Oh, dear.
But it's Charles's money, not theirs.
Oh, haven't I? The money -- Mrs. Lampert -- the money. The $250,000 Charles Voss received from the auction. Those three men want it, too -- they want it very badly.
Gladly, only I don't know what you want! You haven't told me.
Please, do what we ask, Mrs. Lampert -- it's your only chance.
Mr. Bartholomew -- if you're trying to frighten me you're doing a really first-rate job!
You're Charles Voss's wife -- now that he's dead you're their only lead.
Danger? Why should I be in any danger?
Mrs. Lampert, I'm afraid you're in a great deal of danger.
Yes -- and tell me if you recognize anyone. Just a moment. Have a good look.
Stop calling me that! Lampert's the name on the marriage license.
Aren't they? Now look at this one, Mrs. Voss, and --
Voss -- Charles Voss. All right, Mrs. Voss -- -- I'd like you to look at this photograph, please -- by the way, you saw this one, didn't you? Scott, Cathy, and Ham, Jr.
His -- real -- ?
Yes. We knew him, of course, by his real name.
So that was it.
To be more specific, he was wanted by this agency.
May I have a sandwich, please?
Your husband was wanted by the U. S. government.
What's all this got to do with me, Mr. Bartholomew?
Yes -- That all he needs is a code book and a cyanide pill and he's in business.
I'm not an agent, Mrs. Lampert -- I'm an administrator -- a desk jockey -- trying to run a bureau of overworked men with under-allocated funds. Congress seems to think that all a spy needs --
I'm sorry, it's just that I didn't think that you people were supposed to admit --
Someone has to do it, Mrs. Lampert --
We? You mean you're --?
Only we call them agents.
You mean spies and things like that?
Central Intelligence Agency -- C.I.A.
I don't suppose it's an airline, is it?
Do you know what C.I.A. is, Mrs. Lampert?
Have some, please. I've got... ...liverwurst -- liverwurst -- chicken and -- liverwurst.
Charles Lampert's widow -- yes? Last time I sent out a tie only the spot came back.
Mr. Bartholomew -- are you sure you know who I am?
Dry-cleaningwise, things are all fouled up. I had a good man -- an excellent man on the Rue Ponthieu, but H.Q. asked us to use the plant here in the building -- to ease the gold outflow.
Come in, Mrs. Lampert. You're quite late.
Mrs. Lampert -- Mrs. Charles Lampert.
I'm sorry -- my secretary must have gone to lunch. You are -- ?
No, thank heaven.
Herman Scobie. And you've never seen him before, either?
That's a face you don't forget -- he was there too --
The last one, please.
Do you know him, Mrs. Vo -- Mrs. Lampert? Leopold W. Gideon?
Yes -- and he was there, too -- a little fatter now -- and less hair -- but it's the same one.
Does the name Tex Penthollow mean anything to you?
It's the man who came to the funeral yesterday -- I'm sure of it -- a tall man in a corduroy suit and string tie.
1944. The next face, please.
He looks so young -- when was this taken?
Before we start on that, do you mind handing over the stamps?
You did too say it -- I heard you. Oh, I love you Adam -- I mean Alex -- er, Peter -- Brian. I hope we have lots of boys -- we can name them all after you.
I didn't say anything. Will you give me those stamps?
You can't prove it, can you? You're still trying to -- marriage license! Did you say -- ?
Well, maybe we'd better forget about it, then.
You'd lie about anything.
I wouldn't lie on a thing like that -- I could go to jail.
Quit stalling -- I want to see some identification -- now!
How about if next week some time I put it on a marriage license -- that ought to --
Only if you can prove to me that you're really Brian Cruikshank.
My mother -- she lives in Detroit. Come on now -- give me those stamps.
But you're -- divorced?
Is there a Mrs. Cruikshank?
Who asked you to get stuck with any of them?
Brian Cruikshank -- it would serve me right if I got stuck with that one.
What's your first name today?
Okay, now -- hand over those stamps.
Starting with his own.
-- recommending that all Embassy offices be locked during the lunch hour.
Mrs. Foster -- send a memo to Bartholomew at Security recommending that --
Then how do I know this is your office?
The lunch hour. He probably worked it out in advance. He found an office that was usually left open and just moved in for the time you were here.
When did you see him -- what time, I mean?
Here -- Wait a minute -- how did Carson Dyle get an office in here, anyway?
We're not allowed to tell. May I have the stamps, please?
You couldn't even be honest about being dishonest. Why didn't you say something?
Crooked? I should think you'd be glad to find out I wasn't crooked.
Well, of all the mean, rotten, contemptible, crooked --
I'll take that.
We'd better exchange keys. Here's mine.
What's wrong, Herman -- have you got something to hide? Then I take it there are no objections.
Not my room!
It's all right with us --
He's just tryin' to throw us off! They've got it, I tell you! Why don't we search their rooms?
But he'd have to. If he left he'd be admitting his guilt -- and the others would know what happened. Whoever it is has to wait here, pretending to look for the money, waiting for the rest of us to give up and go home. That's when he'll be safe and not a minute before.
That's a crock! If one of us did that he wouldn't hang around here waiting for the other two to wise up.
Or you -- Or you --
I don't know, Herman -- maybe you do.
Then who does?
And stop threatening that boy. He doesn't have the money. Mrs. Lampert doesn't either.
That's the idea.
You're out, Dyle -- right now!
Supposing I did have it -- which I don't -- do you really think I'd hand it over?
And I say maybe you both have it! One more time, Dyle -- where is it?
Is that why you dragged me all the way up here -- to ask me that? She has it -- you know that.
I'll give you a chance, Dyle -- which is more than you'd give me. Where's the money?
Very pretty. Now what?
The view had better be worth it.
Do I knock or something?
Okay -- up there.
Sorry about that.
I said with the mouth shut.
How long do you intend -- ?
We wait -- with our mouths shut.
You'll wreck your raincoat.
If you do anything funny, or try to talk to anyone, I'll kill you, Dyle -- here and now. Okay?
No -- he's not the same. Alexander Dyle was interested in clearing up his brother's death. Adam Canfield is a crook. And with all the advantages you've got -- brains, charm, education, a handsome face --
The man's the same, even if the name isn't.
Adam Canfield. Wonderful. Do you realize you've had three names in the past two days? I don't even know who I'm talking to any more.
Sorry, the name's Adam Canfield.
But I do believe it -- that's what I don't believe. So it's goodbye Alexander Dyle -- Welcome home Peter Joshua.
Well, I can't really blame you -- not now.
I don't believe it.
Well, it isn't exactly the term I'd have chosen, but I suppose it captures the spirit of the thing.
You mean, you're a thief?
When a man has no profession except the one he loathes, what's left? I began looking for people with more money than they'd ever need -- including some they'd barely miss.
What do you mean?
It led me away from umbrella frames, for one thing. But that left me without any honest means of support.
I suppose all this is leading somewhere?
After I graduated college I was all set to go into my father business. Umbrella frames -- that's what he made. It was a sensible business, I suppose, but I didn't have the sense to be interested in anything sensible.
Are you going to listen?
Why don't you shut up!
Fiction or non-fiction?
Okay. Then get set for the story of my life -- not that it would ever make the best-seller list.
I can't very well leave without a pair of water wings.
I can explain if you'll just listen. Will you listen?
Carson Dyle didn't have a brother.
I don't understand you at all -- one minute you're chasing me around the shower room and the next you're accusing me of murder.
It's a start, anyway.
What do I have to do to satisfy you -- become the next victim?
Are you trying to say that I might have killed Charles and Scobie?
But then if we sit back and wait, the field should start narrowing down, shouldn't it? Whoever's left alive at the end will pretty well have sewn up the nomination, wouldn't you say so?
No -- not yet.
How can I believe it when you don't even know who the killer is? I've got that right, haven't I? You don't know who did it.
Nothing's going to happen to you while I'm around -- I want you to believe that.
I keep thinking about Charles and Scobie -- and the one who's going to be next -- me?
Reggie -- you haven't spoken a word in twenty minutes.
I don't believe it.
Every day. The manufacturer recommends it.
How often do you go through this little ritual?
The suit needs it more than I do, anyway.
I don't think I know that one.
Shut the door!
I usually sing a medley of old favorites when I bathe -- any requests?
Have you ever heard of anyone taking a shower with his shoes on? What a nut.
What are you doing?
I dare you.
Then I suggest you call one of them.
This is a ludicrous situation. There must be dozens of men dying to use my shower.
Reggie -- open the door.
The shower's in there.
Did you ever hear the story of the boy who cried wolf?
Let me know what you want -- I'll pick a suit that matches.
Hurry up and change -- I'm starved.
What? Assassinate somebody?
First your brother, then Charles, now Scobie -- we've got to do something! Any minute now we could be assassinated! Would you do anything like that?
Yes, I know.
What makes you think that this somebody will be satisfied with three? He wants it all, Alex -- that means we're in his way, too.
Maybe somebody felt that four shares were too many --
No, about Scobie, I mean. I can't think of any reason why he was killed.
Don't worry, I'm not going to hit you.
No sense messing up the streets.
I'd love some, thanks.
No -- Gene Kelly. Remember the way he danced down there next to the river in 'American in Paris' -- without a care in the world? This is good, want some?
What -- like Scobie?
Women. You know, I can't help feeling rather sorry for Scobie. Wouldn't it be nice if we were like that?
Oh. I guess they just can't help it.
A) It's always the person you don't suspect; B) that means you think it's Tex because you really suspect Gideon; therefore C) if you think it's Tex, it has to be someone else -- Gideon.
What's so illogical about that?
Do women think it's feminine to be so illogical -- or can't they help it?
Because I really suspect Gideon -- and it is always the person you don't suspect.
I think Tex did it.
You're a big help. Can I have one of those?
Who do you think did it -- Gideon?
Reggie -- ? Did you find it?
Viens, Jean-Louis -- we're going to have a treasure hunt.
He's all yours. I'll do Tex and Gideon. Take Jean-Louis with you -- and make sure you bolt the door from inside.
Scobie -- he's the one that objected.
Come on -- let's get busy. Who gets your vote?
I'd better call Sylvie -- she must be frantic.
Hello, Herman, it was a happy landing, I see.
I don't know -- it depends on whether or not they've already eaten.
Lord, I forgot all about it -- Sylvie works late Tuesday nights -- she always leaves him with me. They wouldn't do anything to a little boy, would they?
What day is it?
I'll be right there.
That sounds like their problem.
They've got Jean-Louis!
Whoever it is won't give up -- and neither will I.
The phone's ringing --
I think I love you, Alex --
Now please, Reggie -- cut it out.
But I'm not through complaining yet.
Who told you to do that?
Cutting it out.
What are you doing?
Now please, Reggie -- cut it out.
Okay -- I'll tell you what -- we'll just sit around all day long being frivolous -- how about that?
Serious. When a man gets to be my age that's the last word he ever wants to hear. I don't want to be serious -- and I especially don't want you to be.
There, you said it.
Why can't you be serious?
Well, there's your trouble right there -- you're too old for me.
I'm not fifteen.
So was Juliet -- at fifteen.
Oh-oh -- here it comes. The fatherly talk. You forget I'm already a widow.
Reggie -- listen to me --
I hope it turns out you're a Whitefoot, Alex -- I could be very happy hanging around the tepee.
Whitefoot, of course.
Which one are you?
Why not a lying Blackfoot?
Oh. Well, then he's a truthful Whitefoot, of course.
Because he's wearing moccasins.
Why couldn't you just look at his feet?
There's an old riddle about two tribes of Indians -- the Whitefeet always tell the truth and the Blackfeet always lie. So one day you meet an Indian, you ask him if he's a truthful Whitefoot or a lying Blackfoot? He tells you he's a truthful Whitefoot, but which one is he?
There must be some way.
Alex -- how can you tell if someone is lying or not?
I'm sorry I couldn't tell you the truth, but I had to find out your part in all this.
There -- you're a new man.
I'm no easier to live with than he was.
I thought that was Peter Joshua.
Yes, but we're divorced.
Is there a Mrs. Dyle?
Ha ha. You could at least tell me what your first name is these days.
Okay, I'll drive you around there some day. Ouch!
Would you like to see where I was tattooed?
Your passport! What kind of a proof is that?
Would you like to see my passport?
Are you really Carson Dyle's brother?
Haven't you got a bullet I can bite?
Does it hurt?
It's not so bad. You may not be able to lie on your back for a few days -- but, then, you can lie from any position, can't you?
Listen -- all I really want is an estimate.
Come on -- I've got something that stings like crazy.
I left him hanging around the American Express.
I met a man with sharp nails.
Didn't anyone ever tell you it's impolite to -- What happened?
How can I? You lied to me -- the way Charles did -- and after promising you wouldn't. Oh, I want to believe you, Peter... oh, but I can't call you that anymore, can I? It will take me a while to get used to your new name -- which I don't even know yet. What is it? Aren't you going to tell me? Hello -- ?
The army thinks he was killed in action by the Germans, but I think they did it -- Tex, Gideon and Scobie -- and your husband -- because he wouldn't go along with their scheme to steal the gold. I think he threatened to turn them in and they killed him. I'm trying to prove it. They think I'm working with them. But I'm not, and that's the truth. I'm on your side, Reggie -- please believe that.
Yes, he is. He was my brother.
Carson Dyle is dead.
But you know my name -- it's Dyle.
Well, you know now, so please tell me who you are.
I had to -- for all I knew you could have been in on the whole thing.
Why you lied to me.
No cat and mouse -- you've got me. What do you want to know?
It's the only name I've got. How about you?
Good morning, Mr. Dyle.
No. For a few minutes they were mine -- that is enough.
I'm -- I'm sorry.
I am a tradesman, Madame, not a doorman. And don't forget these.
Please keep it.
Let me see. There are 350 European, 200 Asian, 175 American, 100 African and twelve Princess Grace commemorative -- which comes to nine francs fifty.
You gave the boy quite a lot of stamps in return, Monsieur Flix -- are they for sale now?
The best for the last -- le chef- d'oeuvre de la collection. The masterpiece. It is the most valuable stamp in the world. It is called 'The Gazette Guyanne.' It was printed by hand on colored paper in 1852 and marked with the initials of the printer. Today it has a value of $100,000. Eh, bien -- I am not a thief. I knew there was some mistake. Take them.
And the last one?
A two-penny Mauritius -- issued in 1856. Not so rare as the others -- $30,000 perhaps.
Do you have anything to eat? And the orange one -- what about the orange one?
In human life? In greed? In suffering?
What's its value today?
It is called 'The Hawaiian Blue' and there are only seven left. In 1894 the owner of one was murdered by a rival collector who was obsessed to own it.
Do you mind if I sit down? What about the blue one?
In your money, perhaps $65,000.
I'm afraid it is important.
The money is unimportant.
How much is it worth?
I know them as one knows his own face, even though I have never seen them. This yellow one -- a Swedish four shilling -- called 'De Gula Fyraskillingen' -- issued in 1854.
I'm -- I'm sorry -- I don't know anything about stamps.
Have you ever, in your entire life, seen anything so beautiful?
The man who bought them last week was American. I did not see him but I heard. I knew you would come.
I was expecting you. You are American too, of course.
Monsieur Flix -- ?
The kid said --
What do you mean, no?
Nachurly. And that goes for Herman, too.
Nachurly. Jus' like I'd tell you.
You know I'd tell you if I had it.
You don't s'pose one o' us has it, like the man said -- I mean, that'd be pretty distasteful -- us bein' vet'rans o' the same war 'n' all.
You think that mebbe we're fishin' the wrong stream?
Not unless we're blind.
There sure ain't nothin' here worth no quarter of a million.
No. The police have kindly provided us with a list.
You sure nuthin's missin'?
Why bother him?
And if it is?
What for? If it's not here, why bother him?
That's right -- it's like ticklin' a alligator's belly.
I suggest you get about your business -- nothing soothes Herman like success.
And then some. If you'd only told us you was goin' to her room we could've kept 'em busy --
That was a dumb move, Herman -- a dumb move.
She isn't going to be anybody's mother unless you answer some questions.
But his mother --
I'm afraid that will have to wait, Mrs. Lampert.
Dead, Mrs. Lampert -- like last week's news -- like Charles, Mrs. Lampert --
Leave me alone -- !
Mrs. Lampert, any morning now you could wake up dead.
I don't know anything.
It doesn't belong to you, Mrs. Lampert -- you do know that, don't you?
Tell me what?
Didn't Charles tell you, Mrs. Lampert?
What do you want?
Mrs. Lampert --
It stands to reason you are telling the truth -- for why would you invent such a ridiculous story?
No -- in my room.
In Mr. Dyle's room?
I was, too.
And this? And this?
I don't understand.
Of course it is.
One more question. Is this your husband's passport?
Is that all? Can I go now?
If you will sign this list you may take the things with you.
Yes. Your appointment has been changed. One key to your apartment -- one comb -- one fountain pen -- one toothbrush -- one tin of tooth powder -- that is all.
We took the liberty of calling your dentist -- we thought, perhaps, we would learn something.
"My dear Regina: I hope you are enjoying your holiday. Megeve can be so lovely this time of year. The days pass very slowly and I hope to see you soon. As always, Charles. P.S. Your dentist called yesterday. Your appointment has been changed." Not very much, is it?
A letter? May I see it?
Obviously. One ticket of passage to South America -- one letter, stamped but unsealed, addressed to you --
I don't know. Perhaps he met somebody.
One wallet containing four thousand francs -- one agenda -- -- his last notation was made yesterday -- Thursday -- "Five p.m. -- Jardin des Champs- Elyses" Why there?
I wish you wouldn't.
Is it all right?
It is all right.
I know. I'm sorry.
C'est absurde, Madame. To-tale-ment absurde!
I don't know.
Besides yourself, who is his nearest relation?
I don't know.
Where did he keep his money?
I don't know.
About how wealthy would you say?
I don't know. I suppose so.
He was a wealthy man?
He didn't have one.
Oh. Swiss. His profession?
He was American?
I'm very confused.
Your husband possessed a ticket of passage on the 'Maranguape.' It sailed from Bordeaux for Maracaibo this morning at seven.
We discovered your husband's body lying next to the tracks of the Paris- Bourdeaux railroad line. He was dressed only in his pajamas. Do you know of any reason why he might have wished to leave France?
I'm very cold.
You loved him?
I am Inspector Edouard Grandpierre of the Police Judiciaire. Would you be so kind as to come with me, please?
No -- but I will ask.
I don't blame him. Jean-Louis -- do you know where this Monsieur Flix lives?
But he is gone.
Oh no! What man, Jean-Louis -- where?
A man traded with me -- all those for only four.
Jean-Louis -- thank heavens! Do you have -- ! What's that?
Up there! It is up there!
We won! We won!
If you think you're getting credit for this, you're crazy.
I found it! I found it!
I hope I don't find any little hairy things living up here -- wait! There is something! If I can just -- yes, I'm getting it -- a case of some sort -- it's heavy.
Up there! I would put it up there!
Oh. Neither do I. Voil!
Swell -- only this man doesn't have a garden.
I know. I would bury it in the garden.
Come on, now -- if you wanted to hide something, where would you put it?
What should we give him?
Oh, la! If I find the treasure, will I win a prize?
-- you could have the stamps. I'll get you some here, okay?
Yes, of course -- but if you went back and wrote me a letter --
Don't tell me you didn't know it was loaded. Sylvie!
Yes, I'll remember. Good night.
Hey -- I'm on your side. Remember that.
Don't put yourself out.
Go to sleep -- I'll see you in the morning.
Words can hurt very much.
You mustn't let what he said bother you. It was only words.
What are you talking about?
I don't -- but as long as they think you have the money, or know where it is, or have it without knowing where it is, or don't even know you have it --
How do you know what they're doing?
They're only trying to scare you, that's all.
I believe what he said.
I wouldn't take that too seriously.
He -- he said if I didn't give the money, he'll kill me.
What'd he say?
What is it, Reggie -- what's he saying?
Yes -- that's right.
The man you had the fight with.
Who is it?
Do you tell lies?
Usually it's because they want something -- and they're afraid the truth won't get it for them.
Peter, you've got to promise me something. Promise you'll never lie the way Charles did. Why do people have to tell lies?
That's all right -- it's a drip-dry.
I'm so hungry I could faint. I've -- I've gotten your suit all wet.
Of course I'll help -- I told you I would, didn't I? Come on now --
Please help me, Peter -- you're the only one I can trust.
No, they won't -- I won't let them.
But he didn't! I've looked everywhere -- And if I don't find it -- Those men going to kill me.
So they think he left it with you.
I don't know. Those men killed Charles to get it. But he must not have had it with him on the train.
No, it isn't -- where's the money?
A quarter of a million dollars.
There are three men -- he's one of them -- they think I have something that belongs to them.
There was no trace of him. All right, Reggie -- suppose you tell me what this is all about.
You took the words right out of my mouth.
Be careful, Peter.
Lock the door and the window -- and don't let anyone in except me. I'll be back in a minute.
Out of the window, I guess -- I didn't see him.
I think I sprained my pride. Where'd he go?
Peter -- are you all right?
Nothing. Good night.
Do you know what's wrong with you?
Then stop acting like one. If you're really in some kind of trouble, I'd like to hear about it. Otherwise, it's late, I'm tired and I'm going home to bed.
How would you like a punch in the nose? Stop treating me like a child.
How would you like a spanking?
Him: 'Do you mind if I come in for a nightcap, Reggie?' Her: 'Well -- it is awfully late.' Him: 'Just one, all right?' Her: 'Promise you'll behave yourself.' Him: 'Sorry, baby, I never make promises I can't keep.'
How about once more around the park?
On the street where you live.
Don't you know I could already be arrested for transporting a minor above the first floor?
Look, I know it's asking you to stretch your imagination, but can't you pretend for a moment that I'm a woman and that you're a --
What your husband was mixed up in.
What was what?
What was it?
How do you shave in there?
You said this afternoon that your husband was mixed up in something.
Yes, you were -- you called it nonsense. Being murdered in cold blood isn't nonsense. Wait until it happens to you sometime.
I wasn't --
Stop bullying me. Everybody's bullying me.
Stop this nonsense! If you're in some sort of trouble I want to know about it.
That's what I'm not supposed to say.
He said if I told anybody it could prove fatal for them as well as me.
I don't think I follow you.
I -- I'm not sure if I'm supposed to tell you or not.
You haven't said a word since we left the club -- what happened back there?
Having a nervous breakdown.
What are you doing in here?
Lay on, MacDuff.
No, everyone. Come on -- avanti, avanti!
You mean you and me?
Fun and games. Evidently we're the floorshow.
What was all that?
Right there, between your eyes -- see? Worry lines. You're much too young and too pretty to have anything like that. How about making me vice- president in charge of cheering you up?
He's only pretending, to teach her a lesson -- only -- only he is dead, Peter -- I saw him -- he's not pretending. Somebody threw him off a train. What am I going to do?
Of course? I thought he was dead.
The man and the woman are married --
I'm still having trouble with English.
Don't you understand French?
What's going on?
I'm sorry -- I heard the children laughing.
You telephoned me to meet you. I've been standing on the corner back there -- waiting for you.
Something modest but clean -- and near enough to UNESCO so you can take a cab when it rains -- okay?
Not too expensive -- I'm not a lady of leisure anymore.
We'll find you a hotel.
I don't know where to go.
Come on. You can't stay here.
Something like that. But I'm sorry it ended like this -- tossed off a train like a sack of third-class mail.
Instant divorce you mean?
I'm a simultaneous translator -- like Sylvie, only she's English to French -- I'm French to English. That's what I did before I married Charles. The police probably think I killed him.
Try and get my old job back at UNESCO, I suppose.
Do you know what you're going to do?
Charles sold it all -- at auction.
Where did everything go?
Yes it is -- I heard it this morning.
I rang the bell but I don't think it's working.
It's in all the afternoon papers. I'm very sorry.
How did you find out?
I phoned but nobody answered. I wanted to tell you how sorry I am -- and to find out if there was anything I could do.
What are you doing here?
Is there only one Charles Lampert?
Are you in the book?
Well, the idea's right, anyway. Are you going to call me?
It's terrible -- you just made it up.
How do you know?
Shakespeare never said that.
Oh. Well, wasn't it Shakespeare who said: "When strangers do meet they should erelong see one another again"?
No, I'm not -- I've got some packing to do. I'm also going back to Paris today.
Now you're angry.
Mr. Joshua. Well, I've enjoyed talking with you.
Oh, Charles is hardly ever with me. First it was separate rooms -- now we're trying it with cities. What do people call you -- Pete?
Is your husband with you?
That wasn't a proposal -- I was just curious.
Yes, but we're divorced.
Is there a Mrs. Joshua?
Oh. I guess.
Well, you go in and you ask for some toothpaste -- the small size -- and the man brings you the large size. You tell him you wanted the small size but he says the large size is the small size. I always thought the large size was the largest size, but he says that the family size, the economy size and the giant size are all larger than the large size -- that the large size is the smallest size there is.
I'm not sure I --
Yes, I am -- I'm compulsive about it -- dishonesty infuriates me. Like when you go into a drugstore.
Well, you're honest, anyway.
No, you see, I don't really love him.
Please, not on my account.
No, it isn't. I'm getting a divorce.
Good for you.
Is there a Mr. Lampert?
I'm Regina Lampert.
The one you're blocking. This is the last chance I have -- I'm flying back to Paris this afternoon. What's your name?
Sorry. Which view would you like?
I'm afraid you're blocking my view.
Clever fellow -- almost missed me.
You give up awfully easy, don't you?
Yes, of course. But you will let me know if anyone goes on the critical list
I'm afraid I already know a great many people. Until one of them dies I couldn't possibly meet anyone else.
I don't know -- how would I know?
Why, do you think we're going to?
He was throwing snowballs at Baron Rothschild. We don't know each other, do we?
It's hers. Where'd you find him, robbing a bank?
Oh, forgive me. Is this yours?
Yes, ma'am. A little one -- 'bout seven or eight years old. Th' little tyke keeps callin' you his Aunt Reggie -- ain't that cute?
Can you give me one good reason why I should?
You think on it real careful-like, Miz Lampert -- y'hear?
Please stop -- please!
It belongs to me, Miz Lampert -- an' if you don't give it to me your life ain't gonna be worth the paper it's printed on. You savvy what I'm sayin', Miz Lampert?
Don't make too much noise, Miz Lampert --
Come on now -- sure you do. An' you'd better give it to me, Miz Lampert -- cuz I ain't foolin'. No sireebob!
No -- no, I'm don't.
You know what I want, Miz Lampert...
Wha -- what do you want?
Howdy, Miz Lampert.
I don't understa--
Charlie had no call to handling it this-a-way. He sure didn't. No siree.
Miz Lampert, ma'am...
We will separate -- you look over there.
I don't see him.
A fortune! Hurry -- we've got to find him!
Those stamps -- they're worth a fortune!
What's the matter, chrie?
Good Lord! The stamps! Where is he? Sylvie -- we've got to find him!
The stamp market, of course -- it is here every Thursday afternoon. This is where Jean-Louis trades his --
I'm glad. But what's all this?
He was so excited -- when he got the stamps you gave him this morning. He said he had never seen any like them.
What's he up to?
Hello, Reggie -- I am waiting for Jean-Louis.
Sylvie -- ? What are you doing here?
Oh la vache!
Hold it -- Italy just finished. They're recognizing Great Britain.
Don't be silly -- he would not do anything. He is not yet old enough to be interested in girls. He says collecting stamps is much more satisfying to a man of his age.
I hope Jean-Louis understands about last night -- it's just not safe for him to be around me right now.
I don't know. But if this is a sample of American diplomacy I'm buying a fallout shelter.
What is it about?
The American Embassy.
Who is it from?
He's allergic to him.
How can you tell?
He must have known Charles pretty well.
I've never seen him before.
Do you know him?
Until two days ago all I really knew about Charles was his name -- now it turns out I didn't even know that.
Have you no idea who could have done it?
At least he knows how to behave at funerals.
Don't ask me -- I'm only the widow. If Charles had died in bed we wouldn't even have him.
Didn't Charles have any friends?
It's not exactly what I'd call a large turn-out.
Don't you want me to stay?
He knows everything.
I admit I moved to Paris because I was tired of American Provincial,
With a rich husband and this year's clothes you will not find it difficult to make some new friends.
But that is no reason to get a divorce!
Because I don't love him.
But why do you want a divorce?
I don't know how to explain it. I'm just too miserable.
He's the only husband I've got. I tried to make it work, I really have -- but --
a alors! From Charles?
Sylvie -- I'm getting a divorce.
Va jouer, mon ange.
Isn't there something constructive he can do -- like start an avalanche?
We want that money -- now!
This ain't no game, Miz Lampert.
Who invited you?
Howdy, Miz Lampert.
Then he gets it out of your share, not mine! Not mine!
Shoot no, not after all these years.
He took care of Charlie for us.
Yeah? What's that?
Don't be un-neighborly-like, Herman -- don't forget he done us a little ol' favor.
We took all the chances. The money belongs to us, not him!
Can I come in? I'll need to use the phone.
I think I know how to restore your reputation.
He should. Four guys hit on me today, and not because they find me intellectually stimulating.
He feels terrible about those things he said to you in school.
I'm Lisa Sherman. Dylan's aunt. He asked me to come talk to you.
I get the imports.
One more time.
Don't flatter yourself. You'll be lucky to last ten seconds with me Ben.
That's an awful lot for ten minutes of beasting?
Ok not your imports. All your other CDS and your K2 snowboard.
Not my imports.
I get all your CDs.
Your mind is just twisted enough. I believe you'd do all this just to get a dip or two.
WOULD that impress you? IS that what it takes to impress the empress?
ARE YOU THE KILLER BEN?
You want me to die? I thought you and I were tight.
I'm not fucking you. Not for all your CDS.
Me too. I'm going to start telling people that I saw her drop to her knees and latch on to his unit vector.
I think it's funny.
As fucking if.
If I'm so all-used-up Ben, why do you try to hook me up non-stop?
Exactly. Then he must be a virgin.
I never fucked Rod.
What I don't understand is why they asked Marliston if Rod was a virgin. They could have asked you Cindy.
I wonder why it's so important to know if they fucked?
Yeah. Chris BERRINGER WAS PARKED OUTSIDE THE WINDOW.
Calm down Brent.
I swear to God. It's her. She told Jody she was Kenny's 'AUNT LISA'. I'm getting this sickly feeling...
IT'S LISA SHERMAN. But she still looks like we're eighteen.
Better than a pile of dead teenagers.
You tell these people someone is out there killing virgins and we're going to have a goddamn fuckfest on our hands.
I'm going to tell them everything I know. I'm calling a town meeting for eight p.m.
Focus on the present. You always want to change the past. Let's figure out what you are going to tell the parents today, not what you should told them yesterday.
is there anything you do?
Oh GOD Brent, is there anything you don't feel guilty about?
If I'd gone public with this yesterday Annette Michaels might be alive today.
Why not? You worried you might find out how much she actually knows?
So you just don't point blank ask your teenage daughter about sex.
She's my daughter, Tom.
The kids adore him. They confide in him. His patchouli reeking rear might know if Stacy and Rod were really virgins. Why didn't you ask Jody that?
Why'd you send for Lenny Marliston?
I just wanted to check that you were okay?
Fine, just don't mention the carving This is going to be a tough enough day as it is.
But I am going to have to question all of their past boyfriends and girlfriends.
You aren't planning to tell these kids that 'virgin' was tattooed into both Stacy and Rod, are you?
Ok. Goodbye. Now get back to school.
Nothing. I just picked up the phone to say goodbye to you. You didn't say goodbye.
What did you hear?
No I wasn't.
You were eavesdropping.
Never mind darling. You go back to school. I don't want you missing anymore classes today.
Who is she Daddy?
It can't be.
You know her?
She said she was Kenny's aunt Lisa.
Are you sure?
It was a she.
I am. I'm so very proud of you. Go back to sleep.
I thought you'd be pleased.
You are upset.
Daddy, are you upset that I'm still a virgin?!
You never went, uh, all the way?
Not much further.
I wouldn't ask if I didn't have to.
Daddy! I DON'T THINK THIS IS ANY OF YOUR BUSINESS!
How much further?
I'm not criticizing. _ Did you two get any further?
Well yeah. Of course. Everyone kisses.
Well, I assume you let him kiss you?
What do you mean?
I have a question to ask you. A personal question.
I will. Is that all?
I want you to head right home after school.
No. Those two were together before Kenny and I started hanging out and that's over, what, God a year now.
Had either of them broken up with someone recently? Hurt someone?
I've been in the same class with Stacy for years but we weren't tight or anything.
How well did you know Stacy and Rod?
I'm fine. I've just never had someone my age die before. It's so weird.
Hi Daddy. Hi Mr. Sisler.
They're not all the sheriff's daughter. Goodnight.
Dad ! Most of my friends can stay out until 11 on school nights and 1 on weekends!
You said that two weeks ago.
It won't happen again.
Your curfew is 9:30 and you know it, little miss.
What? I WAS AT SANDY'S I JUST LOST TRACK OF TIME.
You're grounded Friday night!
Daddy you scared me!
It's almost ten o'clock.
I like the idea of all the kids in one place. If it happens, just keep a man outside until you hear from me. I'll be back in a couple of hours.
We're seeing all the signs in town.
Are you sure?
Should we close down any eruption?
As bizarre as it may sound, seems someone is planning to have a big party tonight.
No. I'll handle this.
We need you here. I can bring her in.
There's a Lisa Shermer living just sixty miles west of here. Over the Indiana border. I'm going.
You found her?
The same type that decides to carve into her stomach.
What kind of a person wakes up in the morning and says to themselves, 'Think I'll nail a sixteen year old girl to a tree today'?
This will relax her.
What are you doing?
No. Let her get at least one more peacefully night's sleep.
Did you warn her?
She's still a virgin.
She just turned off her light.
Is Jody still awake?
Two kids were found mutilated in the woods. Lock the door after me.
People always keep their secrets in their attics or in their basements. All the weirdness in this house took place in the basement.
Yeah. You should check downstairs.
I've been in a lot of people's houses and this one's the creepiest.
No, you couldn't.
Couldn't tell she going to off herself, huh?
No pictures. No mirrors. Was she a crazy woman when you knew her?
Is there a picture of her somewhere?
I don't give a fuck what your reasons are. You pay me ten dollars, you can go inside Otherwise, get a warrant.
I knew Lisa Sherman long ago. It's extremely important that I get inside and try to verify that it's the same woman who lived here.
Can you get inside?
I never met the woman. I'm just taking care of the place until they sell it.
Can you describe her? How old was she?
No. She ate a pistol for lunch one day.
She was murdered?
A bullet to the right cerebellum.
She resides there. Out back. She died a year and a half ago.
She works at a church?
You know where I can find her?
She's not here.
I'm looking for Lisa Sherman.
No. I couldn't do that. I have something for you.
Shh. I'm not going to tell you not to go.
Your brother told us.
I know where you're going.
No. Hell, it's the quietest goddamn party I've ever seen.
But I shouldn't shut it down?
Call Brent on the horn. See where he is. What he wants us to do. I'll head over to the school.
Nope. The switchboard is lightning up downtown. Kids from other towns are starting to congregate in the parks and at the high school. It's turning into WOODSTOCK except there's no concert.
Jesus. Any word from Brent?
Tom Sisler. He was murdered at school. Two kids went into his office to fuck and they found him, with his tongue cut out and his foot jammed into his mouth. Killer also chopped off his pecker and stuffed it in his pencil holder.
We just found another body.
I knew you were a pervert. Always wearing those fucking doofy glasses, and driving a station wagon.
Please get out of my way or I'll have to hurt you.
I was grounded for two fucking months because of you!
I'm sure you should have failed.
You gave me a 'D'.
You fucked me up!
What are you doing here?
Pay no attention to me.
You think you're my sister?
Please! You wouldn't kill your sister, would you?
Yes that's the whole point. This is what I was put on this earth to do. Rape the town that raped my mother. Steal its pristine innocence like it stole hers. I've planned this since I was a very little boy. You have no real freedom either. Your father has cast a shadow that you've never eluded.
You're the killed.
I was born nine months after she was raped. One of the four men who raped her is my father. I have no idea which one.
Lisa Sherman was my mother. Do you know who that is?
_ Your father raped someone?
He's a rapist. Like mine.
What do you know about my father?
Because of your father. The way what his sins shaped you.
Me? Why me?
Yes. We have no real freedom. You of all people should understand that. This may sting.
We're all manipulated. From the moment we're born. The event that fatalistically shaped my life happened before I was even born.
I really do. For your own safety.
You think I should go to the party, Mr. Marliston?
Then you should go.
Of course I'm scared.
of COURSE. You're not scared?
You know about that too?
You aren't going to the party?
Can you just follow me? The back is full?
Ok. Should I put my bike in the back of your car?
My house is just a couple of blocks away. Why don't you come on over and clean those cuts up.
Jody, you have to go to the party. For your own safety.
I can't right now.
Kenny'll want to go with you. Cindy's holding a Q and A session at the bleachers. Come on.
I kind of like the idea that we can all lose it together, on the same night. It'll be a lot less scary. You have to go.
Didn't you have something a little more romantic in mind for your first time?
Unless he makes a move during seventh period.
You're thinking of sleeping with Mark tonight?
It's like a pop your cherry party. Everyone's saying it's 'Fuck or Die' time.
Especially not your dad.
You can't tell your parents.
Shh. Ben's party. Tonight. Haven't you heard?
Mark invited me to the party.
Hurricane Hormone. it's flattened the whole school. Guess what?
FINE. Are you?
The phone just went dead. I called the police and ran right over as fast as I could.
Someone tried to kill me.
You watch. There's going to be a hymen holocaust tomorrow. Maybe I'll finally talk to Mark Shale.
Not that many.
There will be a lot fewer by tomorrow night.
Sandy, you have to chill out, at least two-thirds of the kids in our class are still virgins. He can't butcher all of us.
OK. increase the peace.
I promised I'd go right home after school.
I keep a couple of my dad's porno books hidden in my desk for emergency reference.
How do you know what to type back when they start to cyber with you.
Want to come in for awhile? Log onto AOL, flirt with some married men, head into a private S&M chat room . . .
I don't know what I'm so scared of.
That was before he pulled this 'Dick me or I dump you' shit. I say fuck his best friend.
You're the one always saying 'Just do it'.
Maybe I should blister through a bottle of Tequila and just fuck his brains out.
Personally I think he has a deep, almost pathological desire to corrupt you. But I suppose that's a type of love. I certainly wish someone wanted to corrupt me.
He says he loves me.
Kenny'll come running back. This is just his way of pressuring you.
I was desperate. It was gross.
Oh nice save.
I doubt it. Who'd want to fuck her. She probably reeks worse than the docks down in those panties.
Does she fuck?
He's just trying to mess with your head. Ignore him.
But you can't do any of it. So it sucks. I always have to 'set an example'.
You get to be a little Chelsea Clinton. Everyone wants to meet you. Party with you. Have sex with you.
You are 'sp fucking' wrong.
You're so fucking lucky your dad is the sheriff.
You could tell him you really liked the way he chews with his back molars.
What am I supposed to say? 'Nice sweater Mark'? 'Did you buy it at Eddie Bauer's?'
You're going to look really amoebic splitting off from me now.
No! That's his table.
Why? All my mom and dad ever do is watch each other eat and they've been married for twenty years.
You eventually have to talk to him.
The seat behind him is open. Come on, I can eavesdrop too.
You stare at him non-stop, like every lunch. Like this. Like most people stare at car accidents.
I don't watch him eat everyday.
Don't you want to talk to him? You watch him eat everyday.
Go sit next to him.
You're sweet. I really wish someone had thrown a party like that when I was your age. My life might have been very different.
Unfortunately I qualify. Think I'm too old?
You Miss Dunlop?
Not at all. In fact, I thought about going.
Don't you think it's sick?
Of course. NO ONE EVER SHUTS UP IN THE LIBARY. Kids were whispering about it all day.
You heard about that?
Everyone's getting ready for the party.
This place is empty.
Twenty eight years ago.
They're all on microfiche. What year are you looking for?
Hi Miss Dunlop. Where do you keep the old town papers?
Hi Jody. What can I DO for you?
Pretend we're just another couple.
What are you doing?
Quick! In the house. He won't look for us in there.
Oh GOD IT'S HIM!
I love you.
Thanks for coming back for me.
Deputy Webber's at the party. It's only three blocks away.
Go to the police station!
He's dead! We've got to get the fuck out of here!
My dad's down there!
Then go to the party. Run with the herd Kenny. Just don't spew out all that 'be an individual, assert yourself' crap anymore.
I'm scared. Three kids are dead. I want to go to this party.
This party is sick.
Please don't go. Please. Stay, We'll just talk. Then go to the party.
Jody, you're only doing this to get back at your dad. It doesn't have that much to do with me.
And when I finally agree to spread my legs, you accuse me of treating you like meat.
Sharon's far from a slut.
You flaunt some slut in my face.
That's not why we broke up.
You break up with me because I won't fuck you.
I'm making you feel like meat?
Just making me feel like a piece of meat.
What's wrong? Am I doing something wrong?
Let's just start a party right here, right fucking now.
Are you coming to the party?
I don't know. I kind of am.
So I should feel happy that he got away with it?
But if he'd been sent to jail, there would be no Jody.
I can't believe I listened to one word of his shit.
I think this is a big part of growing up. It's losing your spiritual virginity. It's when you finally discover that your parents aren't anything they told you they were. They're even bigger hypocrites than your friends.
My dad acts like he's Johnny Fucking Perfect and he's really Johnny Fucking Rapist.
All our parents are weirdoes. I think my dad is into hookers. I know he lit cats on fire when he was a kid.
I'll think about it.
They're not picking me up until six.
I have to go home after school. I have something really important I have to ask my mom.
I feel like I NEED YOU DAD'S permission just to kiss you. Jody, it's time to assert yourself To be a big girl. An individual. I'm going to this party tonight. Jimmy's my ride. Come over to my house after school. We'll go together.
I do not.
Yes you are. You always do. It's why we broke up. You always hide behind him.
I'm not using him as an excuse.
If you don't want to go with me just say so. Say 'Kenny, I DON'T WANT TO MAKE LOVE TO YOU' but don't use your dad as an excuse. I'm so sick of it.
No I'm really grounded. When I got in late the other night, my father was waiting up for me.
Everyone's grounded. There's a killer on the loose.
I'm so flattered but I can't. I'm grounded.
You know I want to go with you.
Did Sharon say no?
Nobody wants to be the fourth. Please go with me.
Three of our classmates are dead. That's not really the occasion for a party.
Yeah. I think it's really sick.
I was worried about you. Did you hear about the bash?
I heard you got attacked.
Are you O.K.?
Jody, we've been going out for over a year. I love you but I'm all out of patience.
You know, maybe we ought to start seeing other people.
Fuck your curfew. Most sixth graders can stay out later than you.
I got to get home.
So? You're already late. A few more minutes won't matter.
I was supposed to be home fifteen minutes ago.
Cut it out.
Not a day has gone by where your father has not torn himself to shreds for what happened. We both have...
THAT'S why he called Mr. Sisler first. He was one of them.
Who was the fourth?
Mr. Sisler was one of them.
You're not telling me something.
Two men left town right after it happened.
The men. Do any of them still live around here?
Who were they?
I've regretted it ever since. Never run with the herd just because they're the herd.
The word is Mob.
I don't know. We just did. I guess I was kind of scared going against the gain. Against the whole town.
How could you?
EVERYONE JUST KIND OF LOOKED THE OTHER WAY.
And the police did nothing?
They were proving to her they weren't. They were very drunk. Things were different back then. You think kids are sexually bottled up today....
People thought these guys had a right to rape her because she called them 'queers'?
They were children of our leading citizens, stars of the football team. And she was a loner. An angry girl that no one really liked. She'd called them 'queers'.
No, I believed her. She was in pretty bad shape. Inside and out. But the boys were never formally charged.
You didn't believe her?
She was raped. At least that's what she claimed.
Years ago, something horrible happened in this town. When I was still in high school. A girl named Elizabeth Sherman was attacked by four drunken seniors.
I'm not leaving. I want to know why you and dad are so freaked out. Three of my classmates are dead.
Don't make me order you.
Whoever tried to kill me was made up to look exactly like this picture of Lisa Sherman, clothes and all. I think that concerns me.
She's nobody you should be concerned with.
Who is she?
I want you to come home with me right now, Jody.
The library. I'll be fine.
Where are you going?
Not that I know of.
No. I think she lived her a long time ago. Like twenty-eight years ago. When dad was eighteen.
I've never heard of her. Maybe something else was on his mind.
No but he got really weird. Like I've never seen him act. REALLY angry and super uptight.
Did he say anything else about her?
That's what he said.
I overheard daddy mentioning her to someone. I he thinks she's the killer.
I don't know. Where did you hear that name.
Yeah. Who is she?
Have you ever heard of someone named Lisa Sherman?
You can ask me anything.
I need to ask you something.
His mother's an only child.
His mother's side.
On what side of the family?
Yes. He asked me to come over and talk to you.
I'm Kenny's Aunt Lisa.
Are you Jody?
I'm worried about someone.
I got to go.
What are you doing?
I guess so. Luckily we won't have that problem.
There's going to be very few virgins left in school on Monday. It could be really dangerous for them if the killer isn't caught.
Just thinking about something.
You're the one who's hand is shaking.
Now don't be nervous.
So are you.
You're so beautiful.
No, you keep one.
You can have both if you want.
Yeah I was talking about Twinkies the other day and I realized I hadn't had one in years. Then I remembered seeing you with one.
Did you want one?
You got a great mom. I'm lucky to get a zucchini stick.
Hi Mark, Cindy, Ben.
And she didn't?
Dylan's been telling people that Annette gave him a blow job.
Told you to hide it.
Hey! That was a 3k machine.
I'm not leaving it here.
You can't bring it.
Hide your laptop here.
There's Jan and Heather. Let's grab them quick before someone else does.
Yes. Unfair to me.
You're being unfair.
I'm sorry, but you're not going to die a virgin Rod.
Well I'm trying to be real here and you're mocking me.
I know. I'm kidding you. Chill out.
That wasn't me ...
If sheep don't count.
On our way home, a drunken driver could hit us head on and send us flying through the windshield. Terminate us instantly. We'd never experience what it means to make love.
Yeah. I'm extremely worried about that. It's right up there with global warming.
Aren't you worried you could die a virgin?
Let me just ask you a serious question first.
Maybe you better just drive me home.
Maybe it won't stay in.
But you don't really mean it.
I said no.
INT. TUNNEL - DAY.
Come on, Night Shift.
INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER - DAY.
...if we don't get out of this tunnel!
...that is going to explode...
Let me put it in easy terms, Aristotle. We are carrying a damn bomb...
INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.
It's a damn postal truck!
INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY.
INT. ANDY'S ICE CREAM FACTORY/ANDY'S OFFICE - DAY.
INT. ANDY'S ICE CREAM FACTORY/STAIRWELL - DAY.
EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK - DAY.
EXT. ROAD - DAY.
EXT. ROAD - DAY.
INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAWN.
INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAWN.
help me get in the truck.
EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT.
INT. DARLENE'S STORE - NIGHT.
At least somebody likes this shit.
What, do you work for my boss, dog?
you see, that was a-that was my mission.
Uh, he handled rackets, and I carried the balls.
My code name was Blackjack. Night Shift was my coach. Uh-Uh-Uh, I'm sorry. Mason was my coach.
I was undercover as a tennis player.
It all started with our mission in Istanbul.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know, it's, uh-it's very hush-hush, as we say in the spy game.
I feel faint.
Arlo, nobody's gonna believe us.
Bullshit, yeah. Well...if we're not gonna be famous, at least this'll be a great story to tell some ladies in a bar or somethin'.
But he didn't. See, that's negotiation.
Look. That's negotiating? He threatened to kill...
I was not in the man's face. I was nego-...
...face" crap you've been telling me?
What about all that "no need to get in the man's...
Thank you very much.
I think so too.
Patriotism is its own reward.
I'll handle this from here, sweet Owes us a little restitution.
Us. Owes us.
...I feel that my government owes me a little restitution.
...and-and-and truckless in the service of my country...
Right. You damn skippy. And now that I am both jobless...
...that Army nut job to save your narrow butt?
Who put the big hurt on...
Who had to put a gun to your head?
...truck that kept Elvis cool?
Who drove the ice cream...
You did help a little.
Always the negative...
Excuse me. I got a bullet in my leg.
Stop limpin' around like that.
Hey-Hey-Hey-Hey-Hey. We are heroes, my man. It's time to start actin' like it.
They aren't exactly gonna publicize this, Arlo.
We're the shit. Bigtime.
You know, we saved half a million people from a full-body peel.
Elvis is still in there! It's gonna go off!
Why'd you stay behind?!
What'd you come back for?!
Okay. Come on, big guy!
They'll meet you at the top.
Arlo, I'm gonna get Elvis. You go.
Got it? Come on, darlin'. I gotcha.
Hang on, hang on.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
...another way outta here. Hey.
There's gotta be...
Well, hell, the smoke's gonna kill us anyway!
Can we get out on your end of the tunnel?
...-ta get outta here!
Come on. Come on.
It's melting, man.
It says forty- nine.
Forty-nine point four.
What's it say?
I'm gonna kill him.
You've gotta be...
What the hell?
What do you think I'm doin'?!
Forty-seven. You'd better floor it.
...here comes the...
He's comin' up fast!
And Brynner's right on...
We've got Elvis!
I've got the real thing!
Aw, shit. Would you be more care-...
Sometimes the prey bites back.
You got Elvis?!
That's why I didn't give it...
You just can't leave that stuff with that lu-...
Go, go, go!
Okay, here we go.
Come on, come on!
I'm sorry. I'm a little
All right. Okay.
Okay. All right, man. Okay.
Reach into my pocket.
We're gonna die, and you want me to do some freaky shit like that?!
Put your hand in my pants.
Hey, hey, hey.
We're gonna die!
We're gonna die!
Arlo, shut up.
We're gonna die!
Hey, just shut up.
They're takin' off.
Are you all right?
Bullshit. You would've killed us anyway.
You all right?
Bring him down!
Yeah, I know, I know.
A-And you owe me...
...or my conscience.
...squirm, I don't want his brains all over my shirt...
Even though it is nice to see Andy...
...deal with this asshole.
I think you oughta cut a...
All right, all right. Hey, hey.
That is loud! I'm
Like I said, I got a pretty good idea of what's at stake here.
Split? I wouldn't get ten...
Well, all the same. If we get to Missoula, help me find a car. I'd appreciate it. Then...you can...
...Long. Somethin' about that look in his eye when he talked about that Elvis...
...-er. It was your friend...
...loaded, I didn't buy you as a shoot- ...
I mean, if that gun was...
Not completely, anyway.
To tell you the truth, you didn't.
...for whatever it's worth, I'm sorry I dragged you into this...
We got two paddles.
Well, shit. Could be worse. I mean, we're both up shit's creek, but at least we have a paddle.
Anyway, about ten months ago, I wound up in Jerome, workin' for Darlene.
And things sort of just went downhill from there.
Couldn't deal with it. So I split.
Never gonna throw a ball in the pros.
And I put the car into a ditch. He spent eighteen weeks in the...
We were celebrating right after the draft, going from bar to bar. I was drivin'.
I remember him. Got in a car crash or somethin'.
Yeah, Robert Del Rio.
Robert Del Rio?
Started every game my senior year. Not all-American or anything, but not bad. Anyway, the real star was my best friend, the quarterback. Got taken in the first round.
How wonderful for you.
We were nationally ranked.
You know, four years ago, I was a split end at Kentucky State.
So I took his truck, yeah.
So you took his...
Nobody's lookin' out for my interests. My credit was fucked! And then when he promoted Sam over me, I just snapped. So I split.
...overdrawn bank accounts.
...just ready to just slide him right in there. And what about me, huh? What about Arlo, huh? What about my needs? You know, I got a-I got student loans...
...or nephew or some good old boy...
...there'd be a sales rep desk with my name on it. But every time something opened up, there'd be some idiot cousin...
And he swore, he swore once I got a degree...
I deserve a lot more than that truck! Ten years, ten years I busted my ass for that fat rat bastard.
You know what I'm sayin'?
It won't even start half the time.
...piece of shit was worth.
Hey, I told you I did not steal that truck. Andy owes me a lot more than that four-wheeled...
...stole the truck.
Hey, I didn't steal the truck. You...
See, now why would you do that to a man in my posi-...
You're fucked, man.
Hey, you didn't happen to lock the truck up when you got out...
Worth a try.
This river's fed by a glacier. Willing to bet my life that it's a good deal under fifty degrees.
This thing just went up a degree. Ice cream's not workin'.
All right. Hey.
I don't want you to come anyway.
Oh, shit. Okay. Come on.
You're not dangerous! You're crazy! I ain't gettin' in this damn thing!
Taking it down the hill.
Yeah, he's a dangerous...
I'm a dangerous man!
...you're dealin' with!
...to him! You don't know who...
Hey, put it back! We're takin' off.
Okay. All right. Okay.
All right, let's go.
These'll keep it cold.
Gimme that, gimme that, gimme that.
Oh, shit. It's okay. Okay.
Oh, shit. Oh, shit.
Oh, Pete. Oh, shit! Oh, shit!
Gee, you think so?
Okay. That didn't work.
Gee, you think so?
Shit. You gotta pass him.
What the fuck was that?!
What are you talkin' about?! I'm the one drivin'!
I made it.
I made it!
All right, you got it, you got it!
...you crazy bastard.
...Pete. Come on.
Come on, old...
...wanna give it a try!
...Night Shift, but you might...
...-hood of you knowin' any prayers is slim...
I know the likeli-...
Come on, old Pete. Oh.
...Pete! Come on.
Oh, shit. Come on, old...
Get over! Get over!
Left, left, left!
...easy, easy, easy.
Come on, old Pete.
Come on, old Pete.
Go, go, go, go, go. Oh, shit.
Hey, hey! Whoo! Okay.
I should've had that dog bite me. I would've gotten rabies! Could've went to the hospital, had a pretty nurse!
Oh, Petey. Oh, Petey. Oh, please, Pete. Please don't do this to me. Okay.
That's right. Now, move!
I don't think we have much of a choice...
Your weedkiller on steroids goes down with us! Everybody dies!
Hey, and what if we don't make it?!
Eight and a half feet wide! Weighs over five tons!
You think we can make what?! You see that truck?!
...we can make it.
You can just bend over and kiss your crazy ass goodbye, buddy!
Oh, we're screwed, Night...
All right, you got it.
...is, old Pete! Come on, baby!
...Pete! Come on! There it...
Come on, old...
Back up! Back...
Hey! Hey! Andy's Ice Cream.
You snatch that phone from me one more time, I'm--
Well, then, that means it's call...
Shut up, shut up! It's beeping.
It was owed to me. You stole the damn...
I did not steal the truck.
...you stole the truck to uphold your principles, right?
...I believe in live and...
And I'm a peaceful man, and...
You wanna hit me?
Every time I look at you, I wanna hit...
Hi--! The gun was empty!
...-cho and a hijack-...
...reconsider that statement there, Night Shift. You're psy-...
Hey, take a look at your situation and...
...I'm not the psycho.
Probably because they know a psycho when they hear one.
Kiss my ass!
I was thankin' you, asshole!
Don't gimme that "nice job" shit, man! They still got a vanload comin', and what do you got besides an empty...
Nice job back there.
Elvis is on ice again.
Okay! All right!
Get him to stand up, Night Shift.
You mean to tell me you hijacked me with an empty gun?!
...work! It's not even load-...
Take your gun!
You're nuts, goin' back there!
No, no, no, no, no. Keep goin'.
Ah, one of them's in the back.
We can't push old Pete in this heat. He can't take it.
I ain't playin' that.
I'm about to get in your ass like last year's underwear, man.
Look, I don't give a shit if you go through Missoula at a hundred miles an hour. We're goin' to McGruder.
I didn't steal the truck! He owed it to me! Anyway, the important thing is I'm not goin' through Missoula!
...the ice cream for money!
...what all the bullshit about the cash was, wasn't it?! You stole this truck, and now you're trying to sell...
You stole this truck! That's...
I did not steal this truck!
You stole this truck!
You stole this truck.
Look...I kinda borrowed the truck from Andy.
Am I missing somethin' here?
I ain't goin' through Missoula!
No way. We're goin' through McGrud-...
To get to McGruder, you have to go through Missoula, and I ain't goin' to Missoula.
No, no, no.
No, no, no, no, no. We gotta go to McGruder! I go where the truck goes!
No, you gotta go to McGrud-...
Billings? No, no, no, no, no. We need to go to McGruder.
Suppose you're gonna shoot me because you can't get service on my cell phone.
You'd better coast through...
Do you wanna give me a minute?
...excuse me. Can you fix this?
Damn diesel injections are flood-...
...all the time.
It happens to this piece of shit...
What the hell's goin' on?
Are you kiddin'?
I'm gonna bust a mudhole in your ass. I'm gonna-- Don't tell me to shut-- It's none of your business. Man, I can talk all I want to.
Come on, get in the truck.
I'm gonna stomp your a--
That dog ain't mean.
That dog was mean before I met him.
What did you do that for? It makes him mean as a snake.
Yeah, to keep him off my ass.
You gave him ice cream, didn't you? Come on, let's go.
What the hell is with you, dog? He's the one with the damn gun.
There we go. There we go. Did you keep it safe? Did you
Look, put this in the back. Keep it safe.
Would you hurry up, please?
You are not takin' my truck!
I need your truck!
Hey, you're gonna piss me-- What the hell are you supposed to be...
All right, then how about this?
I'll rent the truck from you. You can stay here, you can go. Whatever you want.
I got fifty bucks. I'll get more.
I got, uh....
I got, like, uh....
You want cash?
You want cash?
Wait, wait, wait. Hold up. Hold up. Look.
...is as dangerous as you seem to think it is, I'm gettin' my ass as far away from you and it as possible.
And if that Elvis shit...
Look...I got two tons of the world's nastiest ice cream sittin' in a truck that should've been retired ten years ago. That shit will be worthless by noon.
Then you drive me to McGrud-...
You are seriously mistaken if you think you are going anywhere in my...
I need your help.
...-o of all, wantin' to be a part of this wacko shit!
...think he was a wacko. And I think that G.I. ninja's a bigger wacko. And I think you're the biggest wack-...
Hey, listen! Do you know what I think? I...
For cryin' out loud.
Yeah, I believe him. He was my friend.
Wait, wait. You don't believe the dead guy, do...
Look, if I don't get this stuff to McGruder, it's goodbye, Andy's Ice Cream, goodbye, Jerome, goodbye, Mon-...
...and a shitload of ice.
No, no, no. You don't need my truck. You need somebody else's truck...
I need your truck.
Dude in uniform get in your face, you do not shoot your mouth off.
What did I say?
Sorry, man. He's dead.
Hang on. Hang on.
Aw! Oh, Jesus.
No, no, no, no, no, no. Wait.
Why don't I--?
Well, Darlene usually gives me a signed check for emergencies. I could always give you that.
That'll make up the difference, huh?
...for Andy, I'll tell him I lost a few cartons comin' over the mountain.
...off. Say, uh, three seventy-five. Seein' that we both have so much love...
Bein' that it's cash, I'm gonna give you ten percent...
...two things Andy is not. Uh, but I tell you what.
He could've. That-That's true. But that would've been smart...
He could've called first.
Except for the fact that I need cash.
Hey, you and I are seein' eye to eye on a whole range of issues this mornin'.
Andy. Another fuckin'...
Well, he told me to collect cash.
Yeah, well, Darlene didn't say anything about it to me, so tell Andy to bill her like usual and let them sort it out. Move.
Since today. New policy.
...Darlene pay you in cash?
Since when does...
Uh, between this month and last month, you owe four hundred and seventeen dollars. And we need that in cash.
Look, you need me to sign an invoice or somethin'?
Hey, I'm with you on that one, my man. Prick.
The guy's a fuckin' moron.
No argument there.
That's my business.
Freezer in the back.
Where do you want this stuff?
Sam? Andy gave Sam a nice big desk to park his fat ass behind.
...yeah. Tryin' to get most of my day done before it hits nine-...
A little early for a delivery.
...such is the price...of patriotism.
And it won't be pleasant.
Three seconds. One...
Funny situation, ain't it, Andy?
Well, well, well.
This country trained me to kill...
I urge you to be persuasive.
Oh, my God.
Your move. Okay, Vaughn, you drive.
I don't ever wanna see another ice cream...
Just give me Elvis and I'll make sure you have enough money for a dozen ice cream trucks.
...frozen! So if you don't mind--!
I got three thousand dollars of highly perishable ice cream products that taste bad enough when it's...
Don't be tedious, waiter. Dr. Long called it Elvis.
What'd he say?
It's for you.
...within five minutes.
Give it to me now, or you'll be dead...
I'll keep an eye out.
To tell you the truth, we're looking for a scientist who's gone missing from the Tech Center. Maybe you know him. Richard Long.
That was quick.
Be cool. Be--
Hey, be cool.
Look, I'm sorry. I'll make it up to you. Whatever you want. Please!
Why don't you get that tub of shit Sam to...
I ain't got time to argue with you today, Andy. But I can tell you this. Takin' your truck pissed you off?
...Arlo, and you screwed me for it. Now, where's my goddamn truck?
I did what I could for you...
It's, uh, parked just off of Highway Thirty-Five.
So...where's my truck?
Well, that just about figures for today.
...have it. You have to...have to get it to M...to McGruder.
You-You can't let him...
...about the man who did this, he's-he's comin' after it.
...-onds...with just a fraction of what's in...
Eighteen men were k- killed in sec-...
I had no idea how powerful it was.
So you called the damned thing Elvis
We do need your truck.
...take my sorry old truck.
Wait. This town is full of trucks. Nice new trucks. You don't need to go...
...to Fort McGruder in his truck.
Mason, you have to take this...
Yeah, that's my truck.
Bullshit. Put the phone down, Mason.
...the guy the Army guys are lookin' for!
He's the dude...
What the hell's a sage?
Well, why don't they talk to the sage of Jerome here?!
Sure as hell have met a few assholes like that, though.
No, sir. I've never seen this guy before.
You got a prob-...
I'd say we're about even.
...including the permanently extreme.
...to take any extreme measures I deem necessary...
In order to protect those secrets, I am authorized to fine you, imprison you...
...-listed personnel with detailed knowledge of classified secrets falling under the National Security Act.
However, you are also non-en-...
...and selfless actions, you did save millions of lives.
We do have to take into consideration that, through your courage...
Us. Owe us.
Your country and a lot of innocent people in it...
All right, gentlemen. We're about done here. Fine job.
...on ice! We've got Elvis on ice!
We've got it...
...Mason. I can barely hear you.
What? Say again...
Are you crazy?! Take the boat?!
If you're right, Lewis, this Mason is one hell of a pro. He must have a service record and a paper trail some-...
Any of them Richard Long?
They were all wearing hardware.
Alert seventy-fifth rangers. Code Blue. Tell them Elvis has left the building.
Looks like it. Yes, sir.
Colonel Vitelli. We got a busted-in cold vault inside.
Forget about him.
Why is it you scientists can create implements of destruction...
So far, ye-yes.
And let me guess. You failed.
...I began trying to find ways of controlling the effects of the weapon that we tested on Horn Island.
All right. After they put you away...
"Went away." I like that.
...men every time I've closed my eyes? But after you went away, I--
Do you think I haven't seen the bodies of those...
...always done, Richard?
What rational man could fit in with the sorts of things our government was doing? The sorts of things you've...
...years of thinking the matter over, I began to see that the whole thing wasn't really my problem.
...you were right, of course. But after...
Do you remember telling me once that all through my career, I'd never fit in? Well...
Together, you gave me the opportunity to realize just how very wrong my life had gone.
...and the government.
Oh, I'm well aware of what the government did, I assure you. Actually, I've just come to say how grateful I am to you...
I know where the blame belongs. But I didn't put you in prison, Andrew. The government did...
...me? Well, you could've saved yourself the trip.
Is that why you're here? To blame...
...not at all like a man responsible for the deaths of eighteen peo-...
You look fit...healthy...
You look good, Richard.
Is this stool taken?
There's nothing to say, doctor. Someone had to take the fall, and they still need you, whereas...I've never been anything more than a thorn in their collective side, as you once said.
...I wish they would've let me say something...
Damn you, Long! My people are out there! Your people are out there!
You'll kill us all!
...destroyer of worlds."
"I am become Death, the...
All right. One more shot, provided... we're off the island tonight.
You have my word on that.
...me, if I thought there was any real danger, I-I wouldn't go forward.
Now, I know. You have moral objections to what we're doing here, but believe...
Now listen to me.
But you have no choice but to follow orders.
...the United States into the kind of country we're supposed to be fighting against.
...sittin' here with our hands in the goddamn cookie jar! And let me tell you something else. I didn't join the service to let people like you turn...
...here, and the White House is screaming about chemical weapons, and we're...
The NSA thinks the UN is onto your work...
If it works, your stock at the Pentagon will go up along with mine. I don't think I need to mention you could use the help.
Look, this is a scientific experiment, okay?
This isn't some kind of pissing contest, Long. You may be in charge here, but those men out there are my responsi-...
You know, captain, if you hadn't spent so much of your career questioning your superiors, you might've found yourself with more gold leaf on your col-...
Sweeney tells me you don't have computer confirmation?
I don't work for you, Captain Brynner.
And I changed the schedule.
...to be off the island tonight.
What the hell is all this about a detonation today? We're scheduled...
Tell the choppers we're lifting off!
I'll do it.
And I'm warning you, Leo. Don't test me. Get your men and your machines off my radar screen in five, or three million people will die.
Knowing you, Brynner, you've got buyers waiting to buy! You're not gonna use that...
...Destry, Fair Oaks....
...maybe even Salt Lake, not to mention Casper...
Or I may be wrong. The breeze could be gusting south. That'd be Billings...
Hm. The wind's northwest. That oughta be...Seattle.
...-enworth. I'll have no compunction at all about using this.
...I lost all my squeamishness at Leav- ...
...-ians. But I assure you, Leo...
Yeah, I had a small problem with members of our side murdering civil-...
And I don't like deviations from plans, Leo, as I'm sure you re-...
I checked your release date. I never liked coincidences.
As soon as I heard Elvis was on the loose, you came to mind.
And I certainly can't say it's pleasant.
I can't say it's a surprise.
Good to see you again, Leo.
Well, Lieutenant Vitelli.
...happen if I drop this?
Do you know what'll...
Nothing has changed, I assure you both. The Army still thinks we got Elvis. They had a tactical withdrawal. It's just those two amateurs now. Do you really want to concede a hundred million dollars to them?
Besides, how are we gonna sell something we don't have?
All right. Let's clear the mess and move out.
There's nothing in here, sir. They got away with it.
Vaughn, Burke, move to the end of the street. Fan out and work your way back to the motel.
Closin' down, sir.
Get 'em on line, then stall. Long can't have gotten far.
EXT. MOUNTAINTOP - DAY.
INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.
INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.
Hit him again.
INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY
INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.
Carl, establish contact with that deputy we met earlier. He'll be more useful now.
INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.
Carl! Set up the camera.
EXT. DAM - DAY.
All right. Tell the pilot we'll be a half-hour.
INT. HELICOPTER - DAY.
Of which we have more than enough.
INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY.
And so Missoula's prodigal son returns.
INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY.
You have no idea what you're in possession of, do you?
INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.
Dutiful citizens, you have something which I have waited years for.
INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.
Radio the bikes.
INT. DARLENE'S STORE - DAY.
Well. It appears someone's been lying to us.
INT. DARLENE'S STORE - NIGHT.
...comes up that road.
EXT. BRYNNER'S VAN - NIGHT.
Dennis, radio the bikes. I wanna know if so much as a squirrel...
INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - NIGHT.
Move. This is already affecting our schedule.
INT. LONG'S CAR - NIGHT.
INT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY/STORAGE AREA/FREEZER VAULT - NIGHT.
This is it.
INT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY/LONG'S OFFICE - NIGHT.
EXT. FORT LEAVENWORTH - TEN YEARS LATER - DAY.
Stay put. Keep the camera trained on...
I'm on it.
Get 'em in the middle of the dam.
Having witnessed the effects myself, I can assure you it'll be very useful when the bidding starts.
We're gonna use them for demonstration footage.
What about these two?
I wanna patch in from...
Get your links set up!
Just when we have all the cards, Vaughn. Take these two behind the van.
Prep the launcher now.
You can't fire on them. You're gonna detonate the crystals.
Vaughn, get the M-seventy-nine ready.
No. A pair of average citizens have decided to risk their lives for their country. I almost remember what that feels like.
Sir, all potential customers have been informed of the delay. Fur-...
You have ten percent of a hundred million dollars comin' your way. I think we can impose on you for a little overtime.
...quick in and out.
This was supposed to be a...
Check the immediate area.
Check it out.
Long went missing from the Tech Center this morning along with a very dangerous...
Yeah, he's wanted in connection with a death this morning at the Jerome...
You know the suspect?
Right. Tim Mason.
...to pursue a man who's stolen government proper-...
We were called in by the Jerome base...
...-mand out of Fort Bragg.
I'm Colonel Brynner, U.S. Special Operations Com-...
Mind if you tell me what's goin' on?
Officer Pappas, I'm glad you're here.
Carl, Dennis, get out of sight.
...in Missoula. All we need to do is get to Mason before anyone else does.
This river ends at a hydro dam...
They'll get a break tomorrow.
...out here, captain. Don't you think the guys deserve a break?
It's a hundred degrees...
Where's their protective...
You don't think it's that bad, do you, sir? I mean, Long's spent the last two years developing his defoliant. The stuff can't even kill crabgrass yet.
Jesus Chri-- We're on a very slippery slope here, Sam. A covert military operation riddled with civilian...
Uh, with all due respect, sir, Dr. Long told me to prep the field for detonation at...
...what, Sam? Can't I go down to the loading dock for a few hours without coming back to find a major...
Yes, Captain Brynner, you did, but-but--
Hemmings! Sam, I thought I told you to close up shop and be ready to move up the island by night-...
They took that life away and left me with nothing.
I would've in another life.
You'd never understand!
Why? You're a nothing, nobody! Why?
Dead, last time I...
It won't be long, gentlemen.
...-spite the mouth.
...and unharmed, de-...
Your fellow hero, untouched...
Bring him up.
It's a little late for matinee heroics, Mason. Just give me the con-...
You try anything, it goes in...
I don't see my container.
Then meet me at the dam in fifteen minutes.
Yeah, I'm listenin'.
I got someone who's anxious to talk to you, Mr. Mason.
Elvis is fuckin' dead, man. Get yourself some CDs.
And I can't guarantee the end will be quick.
...on this miserable road to nowhere.
Because if you don't give me that cylinder, your lives will end...
...never done a thing for you?
...to die for a country that's...
...and ask a simple question - Are you actually prepared...
I want you to look at one another...
I don't know what the hell...
...your concern nor your fight. Relinquish the package and you can go.
Contrary to what Dr. Long may have told you, this is neither...
Like I say, Doc Long's...
...should be right outside.
Odd, then, that his car...
...time to time, yeah.
Doc Long. Yeah, I know him. Weirdo guy. He comes in from...
Assumptions are always dangerous.
I assume you have one.
Actually, I was just looking for a restroom.
...look like you're after something more dangerous.
...and a rifle. You, on the other hand...
Uh, you wanna hunt outta season, it's cool with me. But mostly, well, they just take a six...
I beg your pardon?
Quite a getup for jacking...
Assumptions are always...
I assume you want that to go.
Well, then, how about a cup of coffee, Darlene?
Yeah, they call me Dar-...
Is this your establishment?
We gotta get help. Aw, fuck! Damn.
...ready before the morning crowd blows in. I got it...
...ready before the morning crowd blows in.
Two pots of coffee...
...like April. It gives him gas. And make sure there's two pots of coffee...
And don't give him any ice cream...
Be sure you feed Bosco.
Mm. It doesn't take a genius.
I can handle it.
...-fore he closes, which means you're gonna have to cover the grill and the floor.
Oh. Well, I have got to get to the dentist be-...
Darlene, it's five-thirty. Now, I worked late for you this mornin', and you didn't wanna spring for over-...
...and then my night man shows up when he feels like...
...-son. Of all the days for you to show up late. First, the idiot April calls in sick. Then I got a bad tooth...
Goddamn it, Ma-...
And you ain't gonna start now.
You know, I have yet to get a simple cup of coffee and a meal in this place, Darlene.
His I know. Yours I don't have a clue. But if it wasn't for you, I think he'd have drifted right on through this town.
Uh, we both like to fish.
There's something else too.
...he's smart enough to get you...
...well, most of the time he looks like something the cat might have dragged in, but, you know...
Oh, you're two of a kind, doc. Oh, he may not have your sheepskins, and...
Story of my life. Well, one thing you won't lose is that friend of yours back there, I'll tell you that.
Oh, caught a few, lost a few.
EXT. DAM - DAY.
Geneva just pulled the plug.
EXT. DAM - DAY.
Sir, I got Taipei grindin' on me here. How long is this supposed to ta--?
EXT. DAM - DAY.
INT. DARLENE'S STORE - NIGHT.
It's after five...
INT. U.S. RESEARCH LABORATORY/CORRIDOR - NIGHT.
You got thirty minutes.
INT. TUNNEL - DAY.
...we're gonna seal that tunnel! I want it air-...
Great. All right...
INT. TUNNEL - DAY.
Major, we've gotta seal that tunnel! Major!
INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.
INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.
No sign of 'em...
INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.
Is Elvis out?
Get ready to take it out!
Here's what I want you to do.
What's going on, colonel?
All right, let's move...
Gomez, you fight the battles you can win. Now, we've been outmaneuvered here. Brynner's next move is gonna be to get Elvis out of the country and sell him to the highest bidder. To do that, he has to have planned an exit point. That's where we intercept him. That's where we make our play. Now you and your men back off.
Sir, we can't just let him get away with this!
It's not over, Brynner.
He was Major Andrew Bryn-...
Colonel, sir, who the hell is this guy?
After that re-...
And where are you going?
The sooner you get up the lab, the sooner you'll figure it out.
Pappas, that other guy was unloading ice cream into a freezer. Now, what could he have to do with a military scientist, huh?
Missoula's reporting the refrigerator truck as a stolen vehicle. I told you Mason was walking shit.
It must've happened right after we left.
All right. Enough. Look...
That little geek is my...
It could be a cover, I suppose.
Mason? No, he's a soda-jerk drifter, a hamburger flipper.
Run a check. FBI, Interpol.
A man named Tim Ma-...
Who's your suspect?
One of our units is pursuing a suspect up the thirty-...
Well, I've got Dr. Long's body down at the coroner's office.
Have you I.D.'d the bodies?
What the hell are you talkin' about...
I will tell you what I...
I don't suppose you'd like to tell me what this is all about.
Deputy Art Lewis, Jerome County Sheriff's Department.
...try this one out some-...
Hey, doc. Might wanna...
There's nothin' goin' on out there, doc...except maybe the occasional fly fisherman.
Couldn't sleep, Pumper. Is everything, uh, all right tonight?
Morning, doc. Awful early, aren't ya?
Let me have those.
...that the prey can bite back.
And only then does our noble friend realize...
Tryin' to remember somethin' somebody once told me about tyin' a fly.
Yeah, I just....
The only one who understands what this me-...
You're the only one I can trust.
Everything will die, Mason.
And what if it does?
Never let it reach fifty degre-degrees.
Cold? Cold. How cold?
...or it'll ignite.
The compound has to be kept cold...
Call an ambulance.
Shit! Oh, shit.
Some people might.
...-to a simple thing like...
Some people might say you're readin' an awful lot in-...
...and that power...
...forcing him to strike. And only then does our noble friend realize that the prey...can bite...
...create a piece of bait that sends the fish's instincts into overdrive...
Tie a fly...
Turn the power of the hunter against him.
There's only one way you can do it, Mason.
How can we ever hope to win against the trout?
...the master of his realm.
...sensitivity without neurosis. He's...
He's brains without ambition...
...is a perfect hunter.
No, that's not possible, Mason. The trout...
...like a fish.
And I'm good at this. Been doing it since I was a kid. But you, I don't know. Somehow you think...
...but you pull twice as many fish out of the water as I do.
Yeah. Ten months we've been fishin' this river together. We use the same equipment, more or less...
Been trying to figure out your secret.
I got eight thousand yards. Radius is five...
We don't have an hour. We're already supposed to be shut down.
I don't know. Um, he's working, but there's a lot of data. Maybe...another hour?
How much longer for the range and power projections?
Well, your prediction was on the nose.
So reaction temperature is fifty degrees.
Well, Costello's finished with the stability profile, but Abbott is still chewing on the load file.
Mr. Sweeney, how goes it?
Okay, I'll have a chopper meet you at the top.
There's a vent shaft leading straight up.
God! They're gonna seal it.
If you're not out of there soon, I have got to seal the...
Mason, what is the temperature of Elvis?!
I'm at mile marker...
Where are you now...
We've got the real thing!
What we gave Brynner on the dam was a phony!
What? Say again, Ma-...
All right, go.
Yeah, I'm sure.
I'll lead 'em out.
The Army, sealin' us in.
What the hell was that?
Just go check the temperature.
...we're all gonna die in this...
Wait. Listen to me, Pappas. If you don't let us by...
What happened to Colonel Brynner?
His name's Vitelli. Talk to him. He's right out-...
...on the other end of this phone.
...there's a colonel...
Now raise 'em!
...stole a truck under arrest.
Yeah, asshole. I'm puttin' a murder suspect and a guy who...
...any idea what's goin' on here?!
You redneck idiot, do you have...
I said let me see your hands now!
Pappas! Move the car!
Let me see your...
Then how about if I call you "ass-...
You know, I gotta tell you. That really bothers me, somebody calls me "son."
...to talk, son.
Shut your mouth until I tell you...
I didn't sell the boy any...
Mason, you wouldn't know the truth if it bit you. We've got your whole record. We know about the-the conviction for vagrancy...
That's not the way I...
I don't sell beer to minors. I take that kinda thing...
...selling this young man beer Wednesday night.
So you don't remember...
...you answer mine.
...badge someday, then you can ask the questions. Until then...
You find yourself wearing a...
Nope. Is there a prob-...
Do you recognize this young man?
If it was Wednesday night, I was workin'.
...uh, drifting around like the trash you are, or were you here workin'?
So, Mason, last Wednesday night, uh...were you out...
INT. TUNNEL/AIR VENT - DAY.
INT. ANDY'S ICE CREAM FACTORY/ANDY'S OFFICE - DAY.
INT. BRYNNER'S VAN - DAY.
Talk to me.
Gimme this god-...
INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/CAB - DAY.
INT. ICE CREAM TRUCK/BOX - DAY.
EXT. ICE CREAM TRUCK - DAY.
EXT. DARLENE'S STORE - NIGHT.
EXT. U.S. ARMY RESEARCH LABORATORY/GUARD GATE - JEROME - NIGHT.
The usual. Doc.
INT. TUNNEL - DAY.
Now! Seal that tunnel now!
INT. TUNNEL - DAY.
He must've had a damn arsenal in there.
There's ammo fire from Brynner's vehicle.
INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.
INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER - DAY.
...gotta seal it.
INT. TUNNEL - DAY.
It's too late, Mason. I've...
INT. POSTAL VAN - DAY.
I'll stay here and secure this position.
INT. VITELLI'S HELICOPTER - DAY.
Uh, so head for the other end of the tunnel.
INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER - DAY.
Do it now.
INT. GOMEZ'S HELICOPTER - DAY.
We've gotta take out Brynner's van before they reach...
So anyway, he says, 'whyn't you do what the Chinese do?'
An honest living.
'Course you do, Jake.
I don't know how that got in the paper as a matter of fact  it surprised me it was so quick. I make an honest living.
Jake, for Christ's sake.
Look, pal. I make an honest living. People don't come to me unless they're miserable and I help 'em out of a bad situation. I don't kick them out of their homes like you jerks who work in the bank.
Take it easy, Jake.
Barney, who is this bimbo? He a regular customer?
Look at that.
The print's pretty fine. I forgot my glasses. I'd like to be able to read across.
Well, then, how about a ruler?
Sir, this is not a lending library, it's the Hall of Records.
Can I check one of these volumes out?
If that's what it says.
But that means that most of the valley's been sold in the last few months.
Then these are all new owners?
Land sales out of escrow are always recorded within the week.
How come all these new names are pasted into the plat book?
Row twenty-three, section C.
I'll settle for L.A. County.
Who do you blame for that? Her?
The future, Mr. Gittes. The future. Now where's the girl?... I want the only daughter I have left... as you found out, Evelyn was lost to me a long time ago.
Then why are you doing it? How much better can you eat? What can you buy that you can't already afford?
Oh, my, yes.
I want to know what you're worth. Over ten million?
I have no idea. How much do you want?
How much are you worth?
Just incorporate the Valley into the city so the water goes to L.A. after all. It's very simple.
How do you do that?
That's all taken care of. You see, Mr. Gittes. Either you bring the water to L.A. or you bring L.A. to the water.
There's going to be some irate citizens when they find out they're paying for water they're not getting.
No, Mr. Gittes. That's what I am doing with the Valley. The bond issue passes Tuesday. There'll be ten million to build an aqueduct and reservoir. I'm doing it.
And that's what you were going to do in the Valley?
That's where life begins... marshes, sloughs, tide-pools... he was fascinated by them... you know when we first came out here he figured that if you dumped water onto desert sand it would percolate down into the bedrock and stay there, instead of evaporating the way it does in most reservoirs. You'd lose only twenty percent instead of seventy or eighty. He made this city.
Haven't the faintest idea.
Hollie was always fond of tide-pools. You know what he used to say about them?
...the coroner's report showed Mulwray had salt water in his lungs.
That you killed Hollis Mulwray.
What does this mean?
Yes... I think I can manage...
An obituary column... can you read in this light?
What is it?
I'd like you to look at something, Mr. Cross.
With her mother.
Where is she?
Is she all right?
I've got her.
Well, you don't look any the worse for wear, Mr. Gittes, I must say... where's the girl?...
We'll be in touch, Mr. Cross.
I'll look into it as soon as I check out some avocado groves.
Just find the girl.
Okay. My secretary'll send you a letter of agreement. Tell me are you worried about that girl, or what Evelyn might do to her?
I've still got a few teeth in my head, Mr. Gittes, and a few friends in town.
How did you find out?
Well... she's an extremely jealous person. I didn't want her to find out about the girl.
If you want to hire me, I still have to know what you and Mulwray were arguing about.
Hollis Mulwray made this city and he made me a fortune... We were a lot closer than Evelyn realized.
I didn't realize you and Hollis were so fond of each other.
Just find the girl, Mr. Gittes. I think she is frightened and I happen to know Hollis was fond of her. I'd like to help her if I can.
What about her?
I've got the photographs in my office. If they'll help you remember. What was the argument about?
Well, It was about five days ago. You were outside the Pig 'n Whistle and you had one hell of an argument.
At my age, you tend to lose track...
Yeah. Do you remember the last time you talked to Mulwray?
Sheriff's gold posse... bunch of damn fools who pay $5,000 apiece to the sheriff's reelection. I let 'em practice up out here.
When was the last time?
You didn't see Mulwray much, did you?
If Mulwray was murdered, she was probably one of the last people to see him.
Wouldn't it be useful to talk to her?
No. She's probably scared to death.
Doesn't that strike you as odd?
Yes. She's disappeared, hasn't she?
You mean the little chippie he was with at the El Macando?
Yes, his girlfriend.
'Course I'm respectable. I'm old. Politicians, ugly buildings and whores all get respectable if they last long enough. I'll double whatever your fees are and I'll pay you ten thousand dollars if you can find Hollis' girlfriend.
Mainly that you're rich and too respectable to want your name in the papers.
...Exactly what do you know about me, Mr. Gittes?
Was he right?
It's what the D.A. used to tell me about Chinatown.
Why is that funny?
You may think you know what you're dealing with, but believe me, you don't.
Mr. Gittes! You're dealing with a disturbed woman who's lost her husband. I don't want her taken advantage of. Sit down.
If you want an answer to that question I can always put one of my men on the job. Good afternoon, Mr. Cross.
Are you sleeping with her? Come, come, Mr. Gittes. You don't have to think about that to remember, do you?
My usual fee, plus a bonus if I come up with any results.
It disturbs me, Mr. Gittes. It makes me think you're taking my daughter for a ride. Financially speaking, of course. How much are you charging her?
That's too bad.
Of course, but you've got no reason to think he's bungled the case?
Far as it goes. Of course he has to swim in the same water we all do.
Would you call him a capable man?
We worked in Chinatown together.
Do you know him?
Lou Escobar  he's a Lieutenant.
Who's the investigating officer?
They're calling it an accident.
Tell me. What do the police say?
Fine, as long as you don't serve chicken that way.
I think I gave it to her.
How did she get that idea?
No. She happens to think the last one was murdered.
But I'm surprised you're still working for her, unless she's suddenly come up with another husband.
It's why you attract a client like my daughter.
It doesn't hurt.
If you were a bank president that would be one thing, but in your business it's admirable. And it's good advertising.
You know, you've got a nasty reputation, Mr. Gittes. I like that.
What? Oh, damn near yes. Unless the animal's sick or something. And the steam rising off it like that in the morning. That's life, Mr. Gittes. Life.
Yes, sir, that's what it looks like. I'll give you that.
I said horseshit. Horseshit.
Just bring your checkbook.
What are you talking about?
Either that or she'll be in jail.
Two hours... tell me, will Evelyn be there as well?
At your daughter's house. How soon can you get here?
Of course I do. Where are you?
Do you remember the figures we discussed?
You've got her? Where?
Have you got your checkbook handy, Mr. Cross? I've got the girl.
Curly, you know how long I been in business.
You sure this is okay?
Tell Mrs. Mulwray to wait for half an hour after you get there. Then if I don't show, take her down to the boat.
Okay, you got yourself a boat.
I'll throw that in too.
Plus what I owe you?
I might be able to squeeze an extra seventy-five bucks out of it for you. Maybe an even hundred.
I don't know...
Forget it. How would you like to pay me off by taking a couple of passengers to Ensenada... you'd have to leave tonight.
Oh, gee, Mr. Gittes we're going out tomorrow. I know you been real good about it but my cousin Auggie's sick.
How much do you owe me, Curly?
Tell her later.
I'll just tell my wife.
Right now, Curly. It can't wait.
Sure, as soon as we eat.
Could you drive me somewhere?
Off the alley.
In the garage.
Curly, where's your car?
How about a glass of wine? Honey, this is...
Just sitting down to supper, Jake. Care to join us?
Call me Jake. How is everything?
Gee, this is a surprise, Mr. Gittes.
Call me Jake. Careful driving home, Curly.
Thanks, Mr. Gittes.
What kind of guy do you think I am?
Forget it. I only mention it to illustrate a point...
I'll pay the rest next trip. We only caught sixty ton of skipjack around San Benedict. We hit a chubasco, they don't pay you for skipjack the way they do for tuna or albacore.
You bet your ass you don't. You can't even pay me off.
Not for your wife. That's the unwritten law.
Oh they don't?
They don't kill a guy for that.
I think I'll kill her.
What's that, Curly?
Thanks. You know something, Jake?
Thanks, Curly. Call me Jake.
You know, you're okay, Mr. Gittes. I know it's your job, but you're okay.
You're absolutely right, I wouldn't give her another thought.
Ain't worth thinking about.
What can I tell you, Kid? You're right. When you're right, you're right, and you're right.
She's just no good.
Sue the shit out of 'em.
Then what'll you do?
Yeah, yeah. If she'd come in here saying she was Shirley Temple you'd say okay to that, too.
I said okay, Jake.
That's a filthy habit.
There's seven ashtrays in this room, Duffy.
Shut up, Duffy, you're always in a hurry and his friend says why not do what the Chinese do? So he says what do they do? His friend says the Chinese they screw for a while. Just listen a second, Duffy...
So there's this fella who's tired of screwing his wife.
Give us things. Not just some old flag like this, but -
How do they do that?
No. The albacore. It's a fish. My grandson's a member and they take very nice care of us.
The apple core?
The apple core club.
Where did you get this material?
That's just lovely.
Not anymore. Oh, some time ago, my late husband owned a good deal of beach property in Long Beach, but we lost it.
Well you own a lot of land.
Did you know that you're a very wealthy woman?
I've been wanting to meet you.
Jake, you're very disturbed. You're crazy. That's her father.
Get him away from her. He's responsible for everything. Get him away from her!
Take it easy, take it easy, it was an accident.
Who is he, get his name? I'll kill him.
Gittes, stay outta this.
Lou, she will kill you. Let her go for now. You don't know.
I'm sorry, Mrs. Mulwray.
Let her go. She didn't kill anybody.
Mrs. Mulwray, it's a very serious offense pointing that at an officer of the law. It's a felony.
Oh, Christ. Escobar, you don't know what's going on. Let her go. I'll explain it later.
Mrs. Mulwray, you don't want to run around like that.
Gee, thanks, Lou.
Give you three minutes.
I guess not.
You never learn, do you, Gittes?
Do me a favor, will you, Lou?
Well, let's go.
Tell us about it on the way to Pedro.
Gee, Lou, I'm doing the best I can.
If she's not there, you're going downtown, and you're staying there til she shows up.
No, Gittes, you'll show us.
She lives in Pedro. I'll write it down for you.
What's the maid's address?
Her maid's house. I think she knows something's up.
Matter of fact I do.
I don't suppose you got any idea Where she went?
Shut up. Go on.
I know what he says.
They only dump the water at night.
Too late for what?
It's too late.
C'mon I'll show you.
What are you talking about?
He found out somebody was dumping water there. That's what they were trying to cover up by moving him.
And why's that?
Mulwray was murdered and moved because somebody didn't want his body found in the ocean.
Why do you think Mulwray's body was moved you dimwit? Evelyn Mulwray knocked off her husband in the ocean and thought it would look like more of an accident if she hauled him up to the Oak Pass Reservoir?
I want those photographs, Gittes. We're talking about accessory after the fact, conspiracy, and extortion. Minimum.
Well, I hope she wasn't too much of a disappointment to you, Lou.
Yeah, I once knew a whore who for enough money would piss in a customer's face, but she'd never shit on his chest. That's where she drew the line.
I don't think I need a day or two. You're even dumber than you think I think you are. Not only that, I'd never extort a nickel out of my worst enemy, that's where I draw the line, Escobar.
You accusing me of extortion?
You were following him night and day. You saw who killed him. You even took pictures of it. It was Evelyn Mulwray. She's been paying you off like a slot machine ever since her husband died.
C'mon, you think you're dealing with a bunch of assholes? Mulwray had salt water in his goddam lungs! Now how did he get that... in a fresh water reservoir?
I heard it was an accident.
Yeah. Somebody wanted to shake down Mulwray, she hired you, and that's how you happen to know Mulwray was murdered.
This broad hired you, Gittes, not Evelyn Mulwray.
I want the rest of the pictures.
I don't think about it one way or the other. But if you want, give me a day or two, and I'll get back to you. Now I'd like to go home.
You really think I'm stupid, don't you, Gittes?
How did she... ...happen to have them?
Yeah, I took 'em. So what?
Just to be on the safe side, we had Loach here give you a ring.
Is it? I forget. I don't call myself that often.
Isn't that your number?
Let me show you something.
How do you happen to know her?
Didn't you call?
What are you doing here?
When I do, you'll hear about it.
Oh yeah? Can you think of something to charge me with?
No, he drowned a cousin of mine with about five hundred other people. But they weren't very important, just a bunch of dumb Mexicans living by a dam. Now beat it, Gittes, you don't come out of this smelling like a rose, you know.
You mean that's what you're going to call it.
No. It was an accident.
I don't want it anymore.
Or her name?
You wouldn't happen to know the present whereabouts of the young woman.
You're welcome to try. There he is.
I'd like to talk to him.
Hollis Mulwray. You seen him?
Looking for someone.
Uh-huh. So what are you doing here?
Since I made Lieutenant.
You're behind the times, Jake. They've got steam irons now. And I'm out of Chinatown.
Well, sometimes it takes a while for a man to find himself and I guess you have.
I get by.
You've done well by yourself.
Well, to tell you the truth, I lied a little.
How'd you get past the guards?
Yeah, they are.
Summer colds are the worst.
I have a cold I can't seem to shake but other than that, I'm fine.
How are you, Lou?
I don't think so, Mrs. Mulwray. Of course you have my deepest sympathy and if we need anymore information, we'll be in touch.
Will you need me for anything else, Lieutenant?
A private investigator?
But I thought you'd hired a private investigator.
A complete surprise?
He... we did... he wouldn't tell me her name. We quarreled over her... of course. It came as a complete surprise to me.
You and your husband never discussed her?
Do you know where she might be?
Mrs. Mulwray, do you happen to know the name of the young woman in question?
But there is no possibility he would have taken his own life?
...Well, it didn't make him happy...
Obviously the fall must have knocked him out.
It looks like he was washed the entire length of the runoff channel. Could he swim?
Sure, but I'd like to handle it.
I'm all right.
Let me handle that.
He didn't wear bifocals.
How do you know?
On his day off. Get the exact address.
...where does Kyo live?
Where can we go?
I'll take care of it.
I have to go home and get my things.
That's worse... Just get out of here. Walk out, leave everything.
How about a plane?
You can't go by train. Escobar'll be looking for you everywhere.
Back to Mexico.
Yeah... where are you taking her now?
...so that's why you hate him...
Hollis came and took... care of me... after she was born... he said... he took care of her... I couldn't see her... I wanted to but I couldn't... I just want to see her once in a while... take care of her... that's all... but I don't want her to know... I don't want her to know...
...he had a breakdown... the dam broke... my mother died... he became a little boy... I was fifteen... he'd ask me what to eat for breakfast, what clothes to wear!... It happened... then I ran away...
She's my sister and my daughter!
I said I want the truth.
She's my sister.
I said the truth!
She's my daughter.
Katherine?... Katherine who?
That's good. Now what's her name?
Who is she? And don't give me that crap about it being your sister. You don't have a sister.
Stop it! I'll make it easy. You were jealous, you fought, he fell, hit his head. It was an accident, but his girl is a witness. You've had to pay her off. You don't have the stomach to harm her, but you've got the money to shut her up. Yes or no?
I don't know what you're talking about. This is the most insane... the craziest thing I ever...
There's no time for you to be shocked by the truth, Mrs. Mulwray. The coroner's report proves he was killed in salt water. Just take my word for it. Now I want to know how it happened and why. I want to know before Escobar gets here because I want to hang onto my license.
What are you saying?
Yes positively. That's where he was drowned...
I don't know. I mean yes, probably.
I found these in your backyard... in your fish pond. They belonged to your husband, didn't they?... didn't they?
What the hell is this all about?
Don't worry. I can recommend a couple. They're expensive but you can afford it.
You know any good criminal lawyers?
What did you do that for?
You're going to miss your train! Lou, meet me at 1412 Adelaide. It's above Santa Monica Canyon... yeah, soon as you can.
What are you doing? What's wrong? I told you we've got a 4:30.
J. J. Gittes for Lieutenant Escobar
Yes, we've got a 4:30 train to catch. Why?
...she's having a bath now... why do you want to see her?
I want to see her.
Where's the girl?
Did you have lunch? Kyo will fix you something.
Did you get some sleep?
...That's not what I meant.
Don't worry. I'm not telling anybody about this.
Aren't you coming back with me?
I took your husband's Buick... I'll return it tomorrow.
Because of Hollis? Because she was seeing your husband? Was that it? Jesus Christ, say something. Was that it?
I will if you don't.
You won't go to the police if I tell you?
Just tell me the truth. I'm not the police. I don't care what you've done. I'm not going to hurt you, but one way or another I'm going to know.
Like she knows about Hollis' death. Like she knows more than you want her to tell.
What does it look like?
That's not what it looks like, Mrs. Mulwray.
You mean she just found out?
Hollis' death. I tried to keep it from her, I didn't want her upset before I could make plans for her to leave.
She's too upset.
Then let's go talk to her.
I am not!
You know what I mean. You're keeping her there against her will.
She's not tied up!
C'mon, Mrs. Mulwray. You've got your husband's girlfriend tied up in there!
It's either that or you drive to the police yourself.
Okay, give me the keys.
It's possible. Please don't ask me any more questions now. Just wait, wait for me. I'll be back. I need you here.
Including the death of your husband?
That's what your father said. You're telling me he's in back of this whole thing?
You may think you know what's going on, but you don't.
Give me an example.
I want you to listen to me. My father is a very dangerous man. You don't know how dangerous. You don't know how crazy.
Mulwray's girlfriend, for one thing. He wanted to know where she was.
Do? To who?
That you were jealous, and he was worried about what you might do.
What did he say? What did he say?
There hasn't been a lot of time.
You didn't tell me.
You saw my fa... father? When?
I saw him.
He owns it. You know?
It has to do with my father.
The Albacore Club.
Please!... Trust me this much... I'll be back. Look, there is something I should tell you. The fishing club that old lady mentioned, the pieces off the flag.
Where are you going?
Please don't be angry... believe me, it's got nothing to do with you.
And I want to know where.
Just... I have to.
...Yes, sort of a birthmark...
Oh that... It's a flaw in the iris...
There's something black in the green part of your eye.
What about it?
Could you do anything about it?
I thought I was keeping someone from being hurt and actually I ended up making sure they were hurt.
...No. Why was it.
You can't always tell what's going on there.
Hold still. Why?
Bothers everybody who works there, but to me... It was...
So why does it bother you to talk about it... Chinatown...
Boy oh boy, you're a mess.
They do in Chinatown.
The District Attorney gives his men advice like that?
As little as possible.
Working for the District Attorney.
What were you doing there?
It was in Chinatown.
Just. I don't know why. I'm asking.
When was the last time?
Actually this hasn't happened to me in some time.
Well, I'm only judging on the basis of one afternoon and an evening, but if that's how you go about your work, I'd say you're lucky to get through a whole day.
What's that, Mrs. Mulwray?
Tell me something. Does this usually happen to you, Mr. Gittes?
I guess not to you, Mrs. Mulwray. Frankly you really saved my a... my neck tonight.
No question from you is innocent, Mr. Gittes.
Easy, it's an innocent question.
I gave everybody the night off.
What do you mean, 'why?' Nobody's here, that's all.
Maid's night off?
Get in the car.
They may not know it but they are.
They can't be.
You're looking at the owners of a 50,000 acre empire.
Two weeks ago he bought those 25,000 acres. That's unusual.
Is that unusual?
There was a memorial service at the Mar Vista Inn today for Jasper Lamar Crabb. He died three weeks ago.
What? What is it?
We got it. We got it, baby.
It's why he was killed. Jasper Lamar Crabb. Jasper Lamar Crabb.
And Hollis knew about it?
Yeah. They've been blowing these farmers out of here and buying their land for peanuts. Have any idea what this land'll be worth with a steady water supply? About thirty million more than they paid.
No, I think I'd remember.
Jasper Lamar Crabb?
In the last three months, Robert Knox has bought 7,000 acres, Emma Dill 12,000 acres, Clarence Speer 5,000 acres, and Jasper Lamar Crabb 25,000 acres.
Everything you can see, everything around us. I was at the Hall of Records today. That bother you?
The one your husband opposed. They're conning L.A. into building it, only the water won't go to L.A. It'll go here.
That dam is a con job.
Before this I turned on the faucet, it came out hot and cold, I didn't think there was a thing to it.
What are you thinking?
What about you? Do you and your father get along?
Of course I'm sure.
You sure shout that?
For talking him into building it, he never forgave my father... They haven't spoken to this day.
Never forgave him for what?
Yes. He never forgave him for it.
Not exactly. Well, I mean, yes. Yes and no. Hollis felt the public should own the water but I don't think my father felt that way. Actually, it was over the Van der Lip. The dam that broke.
Then it was over the water department.
Not over me. Why would they have a falling out over me?
Over the water department, or over you?
No!... Yes, a little. You see Hollis and my fa... my father had a falling out...
Is there something upsetting about my asking about your father?
You've got one going, Mrs. Mulwray.
So you married your father's business partner?
Yes, of course. It was quite a while after. I was just out of grade school when they did that.
Your father is Julian Cross, isn't he?
I'll pay your salary plus five thousand dollars if you find out what happened to Hollis and who is involved.
Money. How they plan to make it by emptying the reservoirs, that I don't know.
Whoever's behind my husband's death, why have they gone to all this trouble?
What for? There's nothing more to say. Get my car, please.
Wait a minute, sonny. I think you better come with me.
Oh, no. I've got my own car. The creamcolored Packard.
Another satisfied client's wife.
Another satisfied client?
More like other people putting their business in my nose.
Maybe putting your nose in other people's business?
Been meaning to talk to you about that.
How did it happen?
I don't believe you.
No, not for that one.
You seem to have had a reason for every other question.
No. I'm just a snoop.
You must've had a reason to ask me that.
That your maiden name?
I don't see anyone for very long, Mr. Gittes. It's difficult for me. Now I think you know all you need to about me. I didn't want publicity. I didn't want to go into any of this, then or now. Is this all?
For very long?
You were seeing someone, too.
I mean I can't tell you.
You mean you don't know where you were?
I can't tell you.
Where you were when your husband died.
Is there anything else you want to know?
Well I wouldn't run home and tell him whenever I went to bed with someone, if that's what you mean.
Did he know?
Did you have affairs?
I don't like the word 'cheat.'
She's cheating on him.
Look, I do matrimonial work, It's my metiay. When a wife tells me she's happy her husband is cheating on her it runs contrary to my experience.
You'll have to explain that, Mrs. Mulwray.
I was grateful.
And you weren't the slightest bit upset about it?
He told you?
How did you find out?
Well, I suppose I am... actually I knew about the affair.
But he wasn't killed.
If your husband was killed it was. This can look like you paid me off to withhold evidence.
It wasn't much of a lie.
Sorry. Look, you sue me, your husband dies, you drop the lawsuit like a hot potato, and all of it quicker than wind from a duck's ass. Excuse me. Then you ask me to lie to the police.
Mr. Gittes... Don't tell me how I feel.
I think so. Something besides your husband's death was bothering you. You were upset but not that upset.
Stop it. The money's fine. It's generous but you've shortchanged me on the story.
Well, how much would you like?
Mrs. Mulwray, I'm afraid that's not good enough.
Yes. As I said, I was very grateful.
I got your check in the mall.
Thank you for going along with me. I just didn't want to explain anything... I'll send you a check.
Oh... thank you.
You left your keys in the ignition.
...Just a minute...
Mrs. Mulwray?... Mrs. Mulwray.
Please call first.
I'll stop by.
No, Just riding bareback, that's all. Anyway, you might try the Oak Pass or Stone Canyon Reservoirs. Sometimes at lunch Hollis takes walks around them. Otherwise he'll be home by 6:30.
Looks like you went quite a distance.
No. I went riding rather early.
Look at it this way. Now this phony broad, excuse the language, says she's you, she's hired me. Whoever put her up to it, didn't have anything against me. They were out to get your husband. Now if I see him, I can help him. Did you talk this morning?
It's very personal. It couldn't be more personal. Is this a business or an obsession with you?
Nothing personal, Mrs. Mulwray, I just --
Suppose they did. How does it concern you?
Well, that little girlfriend, she was attractive in a cheap sort of way of course. She's disappeared. Maybe they disappeared together somewhere.
You may if you can, Mr. Gittes.
May I speak frankly, Mrs. Mulwray?
What do you mean?
You see, somebody went to a lot of trouble here, and I want to find out, lawsuit or no lawsuit. I'm not the one who's supposed to be caught with my pants down... so I'd like to see your husband. Unless that's a problem.
Well, I've been accused of many things, Mrs. Mulwray, but never that.
Why?... What on earth for? Look, Hollis seems to think you're an innocent man.
I should talk this over with your husband.
I don't want to drop it.
Yes, Mr. Gittes?
So let's just drop the whole thing. Sugar? Lemon?
I said I'll drop it.
Mr. Gittes, you've talked me into it. I'll drop the lawsuit.
I'm just trying to make a living, and I don't want to become a local Joke.
Anyway... I... the point is, Mrs. Mulwray. I'm not in business to be loved, but I am in business, and believe me, whoever set up your husband, set me up. L.A.'s a small town, people talk.
That's not his apartment.
Actually he's not. And he's moved from his apartment at the El Macando.
My husband's at the office.
Yeah. Fine, thank you.
What are you having?
Would you like something to drink?
Now wait a minute, Mrs. Mulwray...
Yes, that Mulwray, Mr. Gittes. And since you agree with me we've never met, you must also agree that I haven't hired you to do anything. Certainly not spy on my husband. I see you like publicity, Mr. Gittes. Well, you're going to get it.
Not that Mulwray?
Get me the Times. Whitey Mehrholtz. And how about that snotty broad? What does she think, she's perfect? Coming in waving her lawyers and her money at me  so goddam smug. She's no better than anybody else in this town.
Yes, Mr. Gittes.
Yes, Mr. Gittes.
But, Mr. Gittes.
Sophie, go to the little girl's room for a minute.
He's in the dark room.
Jesus, that's in Chinatown, ain't it?
Sophie... is Walsh there?... yeah, listen, pal, Escobar's going to try and book me in about five minutes... relax, I'll tell you. Wait in the office for two hours. If you don't hear from me, you and Duffy meet me at 1712 Alameda.
It's on your desk. Say, you hear the one about the guy who goes to the North Pole with Admiral Byrd looking for penguins?
Oh yeah? You pick up the watch?
I think I got something.
Listen, we can't string this broad out indefinitely we got to come up with something.
What'd you expect? That's his job.
Jesus Christ, this guy's really got water on the brain.
Three reservoirs. Men's room of a Richfield gas station on Flower, and the Pig 'n Whistle.
Where'd he go yesterday?
'Those people?' Miss Sessions.
You'll find one of those people.
The obituary column?
No, Mr. Gittes. Just look in the obituary column of today's Times...
...Why don't you give me your address and we can talk this over?
I understand... if you could tell me who employed you, Miss Sessions. That could help us both.
Well I never expected anything to happen like what happened to Mr. Mulwray, the point is if it ever comes out I want somebody to know I didn't know what would happen.
Shut the fuck up! ...Yes I remember nothing, Miss Sessions, just going over a detail or two with my associates... you were saying?
I was the one who pretended to be Mrs. Mulwray, remember?
When did you come in?
Well, I'm a working girl, Mr. Gittes. I didn't come in to see you on my own.
Isn't everybody? What can I do for you, Miss Sessions?
Oh yes we have... are you alone, Mr. Gittes?
Hello, Miss Sessions. I don't believe we've had the pleasure.
Miss Ida Sessions again. She says you know her.
Don't know her. Take a number.
A Miss Sessions calling.
We understand, c'mon, sweetheart.
Just, if you will, confine yourself to the main building. It's nearly bedtime.
Would you mind if we took a stroll on our own?
I don't think so. Be happy to show you.
I wonder, is it too late for us to have a look around?
That's exactly what we wanted to hear.
We don't reveal the names of our guests as a matter of policy. I know you'd appreciate that if your father came to live with us.
Just to be certain, I wonder if you could show us a list of your patients?
Don't be sorry, neither does Dad. Wanted to make sure though, didn't we, honey?
I'm sorry. We don't.
Do you accept anyone of the Jewish persuasion?
There's just one question.
Perhaps if we could meet your father.
Naturally, I want the best for him, money is no object.
Nothing to do with Dad. It's me, actually.
Oh my goodness.
I don't want to nail you. I just want to know who put you up to it. I'll give you a few days to think it over. Call me. I can help. Who knows? Maybe we can lay the whole thing off on a few big shots and you can stay head of the department for the next twenty years.
Hard working, have a wife and kids...
You're a married man, am I right?
Mr. Gittes, my field men are out and I can't give you an exact location...
That's like saying they're in Arizona.
I said, the northwest valley.
Yeah, a little runoff. Where are those orchards?
Wait. Please sit down, Mr. Gittes. We're... well, we're not anxious for this to get around, but we have been diverting a little water to irrigate avocado and walnut groves in the northwest valley. As you know, the farmers there have no legal right to our water, and since the drought we've had to cut them off. The city comes first, naturally. But, well, we've been trying to help some of them out, keep them from going under. Naturally when you divert water you get a little runoff.
Well, Whitey Mehrholtz over at the Times will. Dumping thousands of gallons of water down the toilet in the middle of a drought. That's news.
Mr. Gittes! That's an outrageous accusation. I don't know what you're talking about.
Well, look at it this way, Mr. Yelburton. Mulwray didn't want to build a dam and he had a reputation that was hard to get around, so. you decided to ruin it. Then he found out that you were dumping water every night. Then he was drowned.
Mr. Gittes, you're not making a bit of sense.
Neither do I, actually. But you hired me or you hired that chippie to hire me.
I don't understand.
I never was.
Only when you breathe... don't tell me you're still working for Mrs. Mulwray?
Only when I breathe.
You ought to be more careful. That must really smart.
I cut myself shaving.
Oh yes. Hollis was the best department head the city's ever had. My goodness, what happened to your nose?
Yeah, must be especially tough to take over under these circumstances.
Mr. Gittes, sorry to keep you waiting. These staff meetings, they just go on and on.
Hope so. He's working for us.
Relax, Mulvihill, glad to see you. Do you know Claude Mulvihill here?
Mind if I take one of your cards? In case I want to get in touch with you again.
Well, tell him I'll be back.
I'm sorry, I --
You don't happen to know where Mr. Mulwray's having lunch?
Maybe he takes it very seriously.
He never even kids about it.
And Mulwray isn't?
After all, you work with a man for a certain length of time, you come to know him, his habits, his values, and so forth. Well either he's the kind who chases after women or he isn't.
I wonder if you'd care to wait in my office?
J.J. Gittes. And it's not a departmental matter.
Can I help you? Russ Yelburton, Deputy Chief in the Department.
That's what I thought. You see, I'm Mrs. Evelyn Mulwray. You know, Mr. Mulwray's wife.
Have we ever met?
Well... I think I... I would've remembered.
Do you know me?
Comes in different parts of the river. Every night a different part.
When it comes? What'd you tell him?
When it comes.
What about the water?
Didn't you talk to a man here... few days ago... wore glasses... he...
Speak English?... Habla Ingles?
Yeah, well he ain't gonna drown in a damp riverbed either, I don't care how soused he was. That's like drowning in a teaspoon.
It's not completely dry.
It's bone dry, Morty.
Yeah, under Hollenbeck Bridge, what's wrong with that?
The L.A. River?
Yeah, got dead drunk, passed out in the bottom of the riverbed.
So how are you, Morty?
That's a long fall.
Yeah. Banged up pretty bad.
Yeah? Ain't that something? Middle of a drought, the water commissioner drowns. Only in L.A.
Nothin', Morty, it's my lunch hour, I thought I'd drop by and see who died lately.
Jake, what're you doin' here?
Well, tell you what, pal. If Ida wants to see me she can call me at my office.
Sure you do.
Yeah?... I do?
Ida Sessions wants to see you.
Money doesn't matter to me, Mr. Gittes.
This type of investigation can be hard on your pocketbook, Mrs. Mulwray. It takes time.
Water and Power?
Hollis. Hollis Mulwray.
All right, what's your husband's first name?
But I have to know.
I'm sure he loves you, too. You know the expression, let sleeping dogs lie? You're better off not knowing.
Then go home and forget about it.
...Yes of course.
Mrs. Mulwray, do you love your husband?
Now, what makes you certain he is involved with someone?
Of course not.
I'm afraid not, Mrs. Mulwray. These men are my operatives and at some point they're going to assist me. I can't do everything myself.
Can't we talk about this alone, Mr. Gittes?
I am sorry.
I'm afraid so.
Now, Mrs. Mulwray, what seems to be the problem?
How do you do, Mrs. Mulwray?
Yeah, I'll do that.
Lot of turnover these days. Better tell them to get in touch with me if they want to hang onto their land.
Never heard of 'em... new owners?
That's swell. But how about here? Ever worked for Robert Knox, Emma Dill, Clarence Speer, Marian Parsons, or Jasper Lamar Crabb?
City of La Habra Heights filled an 800,000 gallon reservoir with sixteen inches of rain in two days.
Yeah. Do you have any references?
No problem with me on the Job.
Yes. Yes, they were partners.
They were partners.
Along with Mr. Mulwray.
Mulwray? I thought you said Cross owned the department.
Mr. Mulwray felt the public should own the display. The water. If you'll just read the display.
How did they get it away from him?
He owned the entire water supply for the city?
He owned the water department?
He owned it.
He did or he didn't?
Julian Cross worked for the water department?
I take a long lunch. All day sometimes.
He's liable to be tied up indefinitely.
Well I'm on my lunch hour. I'll wait.
Mr. Yelburton will be busy for some time.
Fifteen minutes ago. Why don't I go in and wait?
He was expecting you?
Gee whiz. And I'm late.
It's personal. Has he been out long?
May I ask what this is regarding?
He's not in, Mr.?
Mr. Mulwray, please.
Gimme your keys. Watch this old fart, will you? Take Duffy's car. Curly's boat's in Pedro, near the Starkist cannery. It's the Evening Star. He'll be waiting. I'll take care of this.
Jake, it's Chinatown. They're all over the place. You oughta know better.
Duffy, go over and sit on Mulvihill. Jesus Christ, I didn't tell you to bring the police department with you.
Sue people like that they're liable to be having dinner with the Judge who's trying the suit.
Yeah. What's wrong with you guys? Think ahead. We find 'em, sue 'em. We'll make a killing. We'll have dinner at Chasen's twice a week, we'll be pissing on ice the rest of our lives.
I don't want Mulvihill. I want the big boys that are making the payoffs.
Think you can nail Mulvihill? They'll claim you were trespassing.
They're all a bunch of phonies.
So he says you sent them?
When I find out who that phony bitch was.
No, no. She said not to call, her husband might answer.
All she needed for that was the phone book!
Look, Jake. She gave us Mulwray's real phone number and address.
Let me explain something to you, Walsh. This business requires a certain finesse.
Look, you tell me to take pictures, I take pictures.
Jesus Christ, Walsh. That's what you spent your day doing?
I don't know. The traffic was pretty loud. I only heard one thing  apple core.
They got into a terrific argument outside the Pig 'n Whistle.
No, you have a press agent do it.
Neither do I.
We don't publish a record in the paper, I can tell you that.
Tell me, how many people a week do you foreclose on?
Mortgage Department, First National Bank.
Oh? What do you do to make ends meet?
Nothing. You got a hell of a way to make a living.
What's that, pal?
Cross was looking for her all over the country. Offered rewards, everything. Felt real sorry for him, with all his money.
You don't say?
She ran off to Mexico. Rumor was she was knocked up and didn't even know who the father was. Went there to get rid of it.
We missed the best of it, didn't we, pal?
Oh, you know. She was sixteen or seventeen.
Why'd she run away?
That's for sure.
Well, you never know, do you?
Course, she settled down nicely.
Oh yeah, it was a big thing at the time. Julian Cross' daughter. God almighty. She was a wild little thing.
She ran away?
No, he's only got one, I remember her age, I read it in the newspapers when she ran away.
You must be thinking of a different daughter.
She must be about thirty-three, thirty- four.
She ain't exactly long in the tooth now.
That right?... She used to be some looker.
I'm working for his daughter.
Is the Pope Catholic? Who are you, mister?... I ask because he doesn't see a whole lot of people.
I'm going to see a man called Julian Cross. Ever heard of him?
Lots of fellas do. Tell the little woman they're going on a fishing trip, then shack up with some little twist on the island... she pretty?
But that's what you told your wife.
Whatever you do, love it like you loved that projection booth of the Paradiso when you were little...
Thanks for all you've done for me.
No, Toto, nobody said it. I say it! Life's not like you saw it in the movies. Life...is harder. Get out! Go back to Rome. You 're young, the world is yours! And I'm old...I don't want to hear you talk any more, I want to hear talk about you.
Who said that? Gary Cooper, James Stewart, Henry Fonda? Huh?
Do like the soldier, Toto! Go away! This land is cursed. When you're here every day you feel like you're at the center of the universe, it seems like nothing ever changes. Then you go away, one year, two...And when you come back, everything's different. The thread has broken. You don't find those you were looking for, your things no longer exist. Isn't that the case?...You've got to go away a long time, for many, many years, before coming back and finding your people again, the land where you were born...But not now, it's impossible. Now you're blinder than I am.
Now I understand why the soldier went away just before the end. That's right, just one more night and the princess would have been his. But she, also, could not have kept her promise. And...that would have been terrible, he would have died from it. So instead, for ninety-nine nights at least he had lived with the illusion that she was there waiting for him...
Listen to this one...The commander says to the sergeant: 'You remember that windmill that used to be there?' 'Yes, sir, I remember the mill's gone but the wind's still there!' You remember the story of the soldier and the princess?
It was probably meant to be like this. Each of us has a star to follow. So now what are you thinking of doing?
No. And nobody knows where she is.
Did you ever see her again?
Toto, sooner or later there comes a time when talking or keeping quiet is the same thing. So it's better to shut up. It's hot in here. Toto, take me to the beach.
They tell me you never go out, never talk to anybody. Why?
You 're thinner...You can tell you've not been treated well. .
No, nobody came.
I'm here! Take it easy! Take it easy! Sit down, sit down... Did she come?
But where'd you go, Toto?!!
You were expecting her? Huh? ...It's a nasty business waiting by yourself. In company it's better. No?...Then I'll leave.
No, Alfredo, I was coming to help you...
You weren't expecting me?
Could be...But I don't like this business. It smells fishy to me.
Just so, Alfredo. There isn't any. And if you buy a television set, you can watch it at home, without any fuss...
Toto, are you pulling my leg or something? How is it possible to see this television without film?
No! You mean right at the end? ALFREDO That's right, Toto, right at the end? And don't ask me what it means. If you figure it out, let me know...
I want to make you happy, Toto! I'm going to tell you a story. Once upon a time a king gave a feast and there were all the most beautiful princesses of the realm. Basta, one of the guards, saw the king's daughter: she was the loveliest of all! And he immediately fell in love with her. But what could a poor soldier do compared with a king's daughter?!...One day he managed to meet her and told her he couldn't live without her. The princess was so struck by the depth of his feeling that she said to the soldier 'If you will wait a hundred days and a hundred nights beneath my balcony, then in the end I'll be yours.' Christ, the soldier ran off there and waited! One day, two days, ten, twenty...Every night she looked out of her window, but he never budged. Come rain, wind, snow, never budged! The birds shat on him and the bees ate him alive! After ninety nights he was gaunt and pale and tears streamed from his eyes but he couldn't hold them back. He didn't even have the strength to sleep any more. The princess kept watch...And on the ninety-ninth night, the soldier got up, picked up his chair and left!
You see, it s like I say. You always have an answer for everything.
Heeey! Totooooo! Don't get pissed off with me now! Come here! I don't know where the fuck I have to go. And the next time be careful how you talk. Not to take credit away from the Lord, but if I had created the world, in all modesty, certain things would have come out better. But unfortunately such was not the case.
Stop it! I've had enough of your sermons! You act as if you created the world!
Don't think about it, Toto. Don't even try. With feelings, there's nothing to understand.
But why? There must be some way to make her understand!
I told you, the blue-eyed ones are the most difficult.
They're not my words. John Wayne said it in Shepherd of the Hills.
What you say is wonderful! But sad...
Eh! Love...what a mystery! I understand you, Toto...The ones with blue eyes are the most beautiful. Whatever you do, you can't make friends with them. Eh, there's nothing to be done about it! The heavier a man is, the deeper his footprints. And if he's in love, he suffers, because he knows he's up a one-way street. Because love is a meaningless thing when a man gets it into his head to do what he wants...
What's she like? What's she like?...
Yes, it's a girl I saw at the station.
Is there a woman?...Tell me the truth... There is a woman.
Nothing, there's nothing. It's all out of focus.
Now what can you see?
It's people in the slaughter-house killing a calf. There's blood all over the floor, like a lake. And through this lake another calf passes by on its way to die.
What is it, what is it? What's the picture?
I've shown it so many times I know it by heart. The first time I showed it, in 1940, was the Sunday my first wife died. They kept it hidden from me all day so they wouldn't have to close down the movie house. I only found out that night, after the last show. Those are things you never forget... So, Toto, how are these home movies going?
That's right, Modern Times.
Chaplin's Modern Times! Right, Toto?
Progress! It always arrives too late!
What'd I tell you? It doesn't catch fire!
For example, at this moment the film's out of focus. Go see.
Yes. I want proof.
Toto, this isn't for you. For the moment, the Cinema Paradiso needs you, and you need the Cinema Paradiso. But it won't last...Some day you'll have other things to do, more important things... That's right, more important. I know it. Now that I've lost my sight I see more. I see everything I didn't see before... And it's all thanks to you, who saved my life. And I'll never forget it... And don't put on that look. I haven't gone off my head yet. You want proof?
Why? What do you mean?
Don't do that...Sooner or later you'll be left empty-handed.
OK. OK. But now that I've got a job, I'11 probably stop going...
Come in, Alfredo.
Any room for me in this Cinema Paradiso?
It's got to be sent to another town. And if we don't the owner of that movie house gets pissed off.
Peppinoooo! Come back sooon!! Good thing Germany's closer than Russia.
Who knows?...It's like an adventure. Hope springs eternal...
Will they really find work in Germany?
It tastes wonderful!
You understand which side the gelatin's on?
Alfredo, go fuck yourself!!!
With time...you get used to it. Besides, when you hear from up here that there's a full house and that people are laughing, having fun... Then you're happy too. So I've been wasting my breath? You pretend to agree with me, but as soon as my back is turned, you do what you want! Get out of here! I don't want to lay eyes on you again! This is the last straw! Your mother's right, you're crazy!! But how'd he do it? The little bastard! By watching, he's learned! It's incredible! I'm letting the box office know you're not to set foot even into the theatre! There are no more tickets for you! And I'm also talking to Father Adelfio! You won't be an altar boy any more either!!! You little runt!
But don't you like anything about what you do?
Good for you, Toto. Good for you... I'm only saying this for your own good... Cooped up in here you die of heat in the summer and of cold in the winter. You breathe in smoke, gas fumes, and earn practically nothing.
Because I'm an idiot. How many other guys in town know how to be a projectionist? None! Only a jerk like me could do it. Besides I wasn't lucky. When I was a kid there was the war! When I grew up, another war! Now it's all different. Times have changed. And you want to be a dope like me? Huh? Answer me!
Then why don't you change jobs?
Because I don't want to, Toto! This is not a job for you. It's like being a slave. You're always alone. You see the same film over and over again, because you have nothing else to do. And you start talking to Greta Garbo and Tyrone Power like a nut! You work on holidays, on Christmas, on Easter. Only on Good Friday are you free. But if they hadn't put Jesus Christ on a cross...You'd work Good Fridays too!
Then why don't you want to teach it to me too? Now that there's no more cranking, and it's easier?
Now listen to what I've got to say. I took up this profession when I was ten years old. In those days there weren't these modern machines. The films were silent. The projectors were run by hand, like this, with a crank. And you wound the crank all day long. It was really rough going! If you got tired and slowed down' boom! Everything would go up in flames!
Toto, come here.
I told my mother you weren't the one who gave me the films. That it wasn't your fault. But I thought you said the film could catch fire just to scare me. Now that I know, I won't steal any more from you. That's all I wanted to say. I'm going.
All right, all right! When I've got kids that's what I'm telling them!
But you don't have any kids!!!
'I choose my friends for their looks, and my enemies for their brains...' You're too smart to be my friend. Besides, as I always tell my kids, be careful to pick the right friends!
Of course I knew your father. He was tall, thin, pleasant, and had a moustache like mine. Always smiling. He looked like Clark Gable.
Alfredo, did you know my father?
What you find tonight on the floor between the seats?
Signora Maria, don't do that. He's just a kid. And why are you telling fibs? We let him in free. He must have lost the money inside the movie theatre... How much did you have?
I bought a ticket. I've come to see the film.
What are you doing here?
Look, Toto! Before I kick your ass all the way to China and back, let's make a deal. These strips here are yours, I give them to you. However! One you're not to stick your nose in here any more. Two I'll keep them for you, because you can't take them home for God forbid and save our souls, if they catch fire, all hell will break loose! OK? Oh!!! And now scram!
So I can have these?
'Cause sometimes you can't find the right place any more and so...well, actually...they stay here. Besides, there are more kisses than you can count.
...and turn into a piece of charcoal!!
You must not come here! How many times do I have to tell you? If the film catches fire, runt that you are, you'd go up in a burst of flame...whoosh! And turn into a piece of...
And the next time don't go around saying such heresy. You survived the fire at the movie house. But no one can save you from the fire of Hell!
Oh yes, father. Now everything's clear.
You understand now? You see it clearly?
I know. But take the-miracle of the loaves and fishes, for example! I think about it a lot...How is it possible for...
But Alfredo, what you're saying is horrifying!
Father Adelfio, I have a very serious doubt that is torturing my soul. And you've got to help me, because I've lost all peace of mind...
What is it, Alfredo? Right now, of all times!
Yeah!...Getting there's downhill and all the saints help you. But coming back! The saints stand there watching you, that's all! God's will be done.
Good morning, father. It's hard on the feet, huh?
I'll never agree with you. Never, Elena.
No, Salvatore...there is no future. There's only the past. Even meeting last night was nothing but a dream, a beautiful dream. We never did it when we were kids, remember? Now that it's happened, I don't think there could have been a better ending.
What difference does it make to find an explanation? That's the way it went. But Alfredo didn't betray you, he was the only one who really understood you. Salvatore, if you had chosen to be with me, you'd have never made your films. And that would have been a pity! Because they're wonderful, I've seen them all. But you shouldn't have gone and changed your name. You should have kept your own.
But I never saw that note! I must have covered it with my hand, without realizing it, that's the only explanation...
He wasn't crazy. In the beginning I was upset. I think I really hated him. But then, with time, I understood what he said...and your silence too.
Oh, how I looked for you, Elena! You'll never know. I wrote, telephoned, nothing. Nobody ever answered. But I dreamt of you for years! That's why I went away...and never came back here. Even as the years passed, in all the women I met, I was only looking for you. I had success it's true, but there was always something missing... I'd never have imagined that all this had to end because of the man who was like a father to me. A crazy lunatic!
I told him I'd take his advice. But before I went away I left you that note... I was on my way down the stairs...
Alfredo, damn him! He cast his spell on you too!
It's the first time I've had to chance to tell the story. I never mentioned it to anybody.
Nor have I. Even though you disappeared... But what's the point of talking about it? We risk being pathetic and ridiculous. You still live in Rome?
But I've never forgotten you, Elena!
Politics. He's the district representative. We met at the University in Pisa.
Sure, sure! Boccia... What's he do?
My husband...you know him.
All things considered, yes. Even if it wasn't what I dreamt of then...
No. And I'm not married. Are you happy?
One or two. Bur there're not all that many Salvatores. I've got a son, too...he's older. And you, do you have children?
I saw your daughter. She's beautiful! Who knows how many Salvatores must be running after her...
Of course I remember him. I'm sorry. You were terribly fond of him.
Alfredo died. Do you remember him?
Don't be silly...I'm old. Don't look at me like that, please. Why'd you come back?
You're still beautiful...
The son of one of his colleagues. Don't act that way. We'll talk about it later. Wait for me Thursday at the Cinema Paradiso. I'll be coming with the five o'clock bus.
He won't be convinced, Salvatore. He has other plans for me.
Good, this way we can finally talk. I'll convince him this time.
No, Salvatore. You'd better go. It's my father.
The army says that, as a war orphan, I don't have to serve in the military, but nothing can be done. It's a bureaucratic error. I have to leave. Day after tomorrow morning. They're sending me to Rome. But they'll discharge me ten days later. Let's go...
So what'd they say?
I got back today. You can't imagine the excuses I had to make up to be here...
That's nothing to do with it, it's the car that's still being run in...
You have a great future as a driver. If they don't arrest you first!!
For you to fall in love with me too. Listen carefully. Every night, when I get off work, I'll come and wait beneath your window. Every night. When you change your mind, open your window. That's all. I'll understand...
I don't care. I'll wait.
Sssssh, Be quiet, pretend everything's normal. I'm Salvatore.
We'll talk about that later.
Father, I have sinned...
Bye-bye, Elena. ...What an idiot! What an idiot! 'Nice day'! Christ!!
Yes, nice day. ...I've got to go now. Bye-bye.
No particular reason... Nice day, huh?
Hi. Why are you running?
Elena. My name's Elena.
My name's Salvatore...And yours?
You never used to do that!
And I never asked for one! You have nothing to explain. I always thought that what you did was right, and that was that. With no beating around the bush... Only one thing made me suffer: bolting the door shut before going to bed at night...
No...It's nothing to do with you. It's just that I was scared of coming back. Now, after all these years, I thought I was strong, that I had forgotten lots of things. Instead, I find it's quite the opposite, as if I had never left. And yet, I look at Lia and feel as if I didn't know her, and you, Mamma...I abandoned you, ran away like a thief, thought only of myself, and never gave you an explanation...
You shouldn't tell me that now. After all these years! I put all your things in here. Go in, go in...
No, Mamma, it only takes an hour by air, you know.
See how pretty the house is? We did everything over. If it hadn't been for you! Come, I have a surprise.... You must be tired. If you want to rest, there's time before the funeral.
They're always writing to me saying they want to come to Rome!
Lia'll be so glad to see you, you'll see. And you won't recognize the kids any more, they're grown up by now.
It's not true! No! It's not true!!! I'll show you he's coming back!
Daddy's not coming back...He's dead.
Somebody stole it.
Then where's the money?
I've been looking for you all day. Did you buy the milk?
It takes years to get there. And years to come back...Now go to bed, Toto, it's late.
I don't remember him any moreMa, where's Russia?
Well, it's hard to call an important person by his first name. But if it really matters to you, I'11 call you... Toto!...
But why do you call me 'Mr. Di Vita'? It didn't used to be that way...
Six years ago this May. No one came any more. You "know better than me, Mr. Di Vita, the crisis, television, videos. By now the movie business is only a dream. The city's bought it now to make a new parking lot. Next Saturday they're tearing it down...A pity!...
How long's it been shut?
Toto, this is no film for the common herd. One day'll be more than enough...So tonight, please set up tomorrow's film, so the projectionist who is coming will find it ready.
What the fuck you talking about? You getting into the act too, Toto? Titanus has trouble giving me even one copy and I have to say thanks! If I ask for two, the least they'll do is cut off my head and play ball with it!
The projector's all rusty, but I could fix it in two or three days. Give the place a good cleaning, put in some seats and bring in a projectionist and we'll show Catene in two houses.
So what's that got to do with it?
Don Ciccio, I've got an idea...You remember that old abandoned movie house where they're supposed to build those low-rent houses?
Well, the way I look at it - - You want to know what I really think would be wonderful?
Please, Mr. Bernstein.
I do. I do. I mean, since you're running for Governor - and you want to be elected - I think it's wonderful you're going to be elected. Only - - Can I say something?
You don't really think so?
It's wonderful, Mr. Kane. Wonderful. Wonderful.
Huh? Oh, I forgot - you've been away so long I forgot about your joking -
We certainly do. Vacation's over - starting right after dinner. But right now - that lady over there - - that's the new society editor, I take it? You think I could interrupt her a moment, Mr. Bernstein?
So then, tonight, we go over everything thoroughly, eh? Especially the new papers -
Sit down, everybody - for heaven's sake!
Ask them to sit down, Mr. Bernstein.
I promise not to bring any more Venuses and not to worry - and not to try to get in touch with any of the papers -
But please, Mr. Kane, don't buy any more paintings. Nine Venuses already we got, twenty-six Virgins - two whole warehouses full of stuff -
Two hundred and one thousand, six hundred and forty-seven.
Gentlemen of the "Enquirer"! This has, I think, been a fitting welcome to those distinguished journalists - Mr. Reilly in particular - who are the latest additions to our ranks. It will make them happy to learn that the "Enquirer's" circulation this morning passed the two hundred thousand mark.
You know how long it took the "Chronicle" to get that staff together? Twenty years.
You're right, Mr. Bernstein.
Say, with them fellows - - it's no trick to get circulation.
Look at that.
From the Chronicle Building that sign is the biggest thing you can see - every floor guaranteed - let's hope it bothers them - it cost us enough.
Let's hope they like it there.
These'll be kept. I'll provide the people of this city with a daily paper that will tell all the news honestly. I will also provide them -
You don't wanta make any promises, Mr. Kane, you don't wanta keep.
I'll write it myself.
I can't take shorthand, Mr. Kane -
My Declaration of Principles - Don't smile, Brad - Take dictation, Mr. Bernstein -
It's a saying, Mr. Bernstein. A new broom sweeps clean.
Mr. Leland, if Mr. Kane, he should decide to drop the price to one cent, or maybe even he should make up his mind to give the paper away with a half-pound of tea - you'll just hold him until I get back, won't you?
Ready for dinner, Brad?
All right, but I'll keep these figures, too, just in case.
Re-figure it, Mr. Bernstein, at two cents.
This is all figured at three cents a copy.
I ordered six already this morning! Got a discount!
I've just made a shocking discovery. The "Enquirer" is without a telephone. Have two installed at once!
Get me a typewriter. I'll finish the notice.
I can't take shorthand.
It isn't here, Mr. Bernstein. I'm dictating it.
I didn't see that.
Of her acting, it is absolutely impossible to say anything except that it represents a new low... Have you got that, Mr. Bernstein? In the opinion of this reviewer -
That's all there is.
"Her singing, happily, is no concern of this department. Of her acting, it is absolutely impossible to..."
"Miss Susan Alexander, a pretty but hopelessly incompetent amateur - - last night opened the new Chicago Opera House in a performance of - of -" I can't pronounce that name, Mr. Kane.
What does it say there?
Hey, Brad! Brad! He ain't been drinking before, Mr. Kane. Never. We would have heard.
That's all right, Mr. Bernstein.
Mr. Kane -
Where is he?
He sure did, Mr. Kane.
I rather like it myself. Send it right away.
That's fine, Mr. Kane.
The food is marvelous in Cuba the senoritas are beautiful stop I could send you prose poems of palm trees and sunrises and tropical colors blending in far off landscapes but don't feel right in spending your money for this stop there's no war in Cuba regards Wheeler.
That's all right. We have no secrets from our readers. Mr. Thatcher is one of our most devoted readers, Mr. Bernstein. He knows what's wrong with every issue since I've taken charge. What's the cable?
How are you, Mr. Thatcher?
Mr. Bernstein, Mr. Thatcher -
Well, well - isn't that nice?
Yes, very! Naturally.
Oh, yes, it's already made up. Our Mr. Mervin wrote a small review.
And the social. How about the music notice? You got that in?
Yes. I thought it was a good idea. We've covered it from the news end, of course.
That's a long story.
He's a great guy - Leland. Why'd he ever leave New York?
That's right. They called us the "Three Musketeers."
You and Leland and Mr. Kane - you were great friends back in the old days, I understand.
I might make him nervous.
Well, why don't you, Mr. Bernstein? You know Mr. Leland.
Go in and ask him to hurry.
Just old age. It's the only disease, Mr. Thompson, you don't look forward to being cured of. You ought to see Mr. Leland. There's a whole lot of things he could tell you - if he wanted to.
Nothing particular the matter with him, they tell me. Just -
You don't say! Why I had no idea -
In case you'd like to know, Mr. Bernstein, he's at the Huntington Memorial Hospital on 180th Street.
Maybe that was something he lost. Mr. Kane was a man that lost - almost everything he had - You ought to talk to Bradford Leland. He could tell you a lot. I wish I could tell you where Leland is, but I don't know myself. He may be out of town somewhere - he may be dead.
It ended - Then there was Susie - that ended, too. I guess he didn't make her very happy - You know, I was thinking - that Rosebud you're trying to find out about -
It didn't end very well, did it?
The way things turned out, I don't need to tell you - Miss Emily Norton was no rosebud!
Oh, yes. He saw to that. I tell you, Mr. Thompson, he was a hard man to figure out. He had that funny sense of humor. And then, too, maybe he thought by finishing that piece he could show Leland he was an honest man. You see, Leland didn't think so. I guess he showed him all right. He's a nice fellow, but he's a dreamer. They were always together in those early days when we just started the Enquirer.
Well, then, how could he write that roast? The notices in the Kane papers were always very kind to her.
He thought she was great, Mr. Thompson. He really believed that. He put all his ambition on that girl. After she came along, he never really cared for himself like he used to. Oh, I don't blame Susie -
I guess Mr. Kane didn't think so well of Susie's art anyway.
He finished it. He wrote the worst notice I ever read about the girl he loved. We ran it in every paper.
It's not trick to make an awful lot of money if all you want is to make a lot of money. Thatcher!
He made an awful lot of money.
Thatcher! That man was the biggest darn fool I ever met -
Nobody else, but I've been through that stuff of Walter Thatcher's. That journal of his -
Who else did you see?
I'm going back there.
You know why? She was so -
Susie? I called her myself the day after he died. I thought maybe somebody ought to... She couldn't even come to the 'phone.
Well, I went down to Atlantic City -
Who else you been to see?
I'm calling on people who knew Mr. Kane. I'm calling on you.
You're pretty young, Mr. - Mr. Thompson. A fellow will remember things you wouldn't think he'd remember. You take me. One day, back in 1896, I was crossing over to Jersey on a ferry and as we pulled out, there was another ferry pulling in - - and on it, there was a girl waiting to get off. A white dress she had on - and she was carrying a white pastrol - and I only saw her for one second and she didn't see me at all - but I'll bet a month hasn't gone by since that I haven't thought of that girl. See what I mean? Well, so what are you doing about this "Rosebud," Mr. Thompson.
Not some girl he knew casually and then remembered after fifty years, on his death bed -
That Rosebud? Maybe some girl? There were a lot of them back in the early days, and -
- We thought maybe, if we can find out what he meant by that last word - as he was dying -
From before the beginning, young fellow. And now it's after the end. Anything you want to know about him - about the paper -
Well, Mr. Bernstein, you were with Mr. Kane from the very beginning -
Who's a busy man? Me? I'm Chairman of the Board. I got nothing but time ... What do you want to know?
Mr. Kane is finishing your piece the way you started it.
I suppose he's fixing it up - I know I'd never get that through.
Kane? Charlie? Where is he?
Mr. Kane is finishing it.
Where is it - where's my notice? I've got to finish it!
Hello, Mr. Leland.
Yes, Mr. Bernstein.
Not to me. But you will let that cop go home with Mr. Kane, won't you?
Go and get yourself washed up, Mr. Bernstein. There doesn't seem to be an serious injury.
If you hadn't come along and protected me when you did, I'd have killed them fellows.
I'm all right, Mr. Leland. Only there was some fellows out front that thought they ought to take things up with me. I learned 'em! Didn't I, officer?
September the ninth?
Well, he'll be coming back in September. The Majestic. I got the reservations. It gets in on the ninth.
If you thought I'd answer different from what Mr. Kane tells you - well, I wouldn't.
Mr. Bernstein, am I a stuffed shirt? Am I a horse-faced hypocrite? Am I a New England school-marm?
Don't I always? Most of the time?
Mr. Bernstein, I wish you'd let me ask you a few questions, and answer me truthfully.
I wanted him to have fun - and with me along -
Mr. Leland, why didn't you go to Europe with him? He wanted you to. He said to me just yesterday -
Do you, Mr. Leland?
Probably. There's always a chance, of course, that they'll change Mr. Kane - without his knowing it.
Certainly not. So what's that got to do with it? Mr. Kane, he'll have them changed to his kind of newspapermen in a week.
Do we stand for the same things that the "Chronicle" stands for, Mr. Bernstein?
Sure. They're like anybody else. They got work to do. They do it. Only they happen to be the best men in the business.
Mr. Bernstein, these men who are now with the "Enquirer" - who were with the "Chronicle" until yesterday - weren't they just as devoted to the "Chronicle" kind of paper as they are now to - our kind of paper?
What's the matter?
Isn't it wonderful? Such a party!
Do you, Mr. Leland?
That looks pretty nice.
Sixty-two thousand -
You just made the paper over four times today, Mr. Kane. That's all -
It's three hours and fifty minutes late - but we did it -
We'll be on the street soon, Charlie - another ten minutes.
Who said anything about brooms?
I'm not guaranteeing a thing, Mr. Bernstein. You people work too fast for me! Talk about new brooms!
But Mr. Kane, I meant -
It is accepted, Mr. Carter, with assurances of my deepest regard.
I've been a newspaperman my whole life and I don't intend - - if it's your intention that I should continue to be harassed by this - this - I warn you, Mr. Kane, it would go against my grain to desert you when you need me so badly - but I would feel obliged to ask that my resignation be accepted.
That'll be all today, Mr. Carter. You've been most understanding. Good day, Mr. Carter!
But, Mr. Kane -
Really, Mr. Kane, I can't see the function of a respectable newspaper -
That's the kind of thing we are going to be interested in from now on, Mr. Carter. Right now, I wish you'd send your best man up to see Mr. Silverstone. Have him tell Mr. Silverstone if he doesn't produce his wife at once, the "Enquirer" will have him arrested. Have him tell Mr. Silverstone he's a detective from the Central Office. If Mr. Silverstone asks to see his badge, your man is to get indignant and call Mr. Silverstone an anarchist. Loudly, so that the neighbors can hear.
It's not our function to report the gossip of housewives. If we were interested in that kind of thing, Mr. Kane, we could fill the paper twice over daily -
The "Chronicle" doesn't say she's murdered, Mr. Carter. It says the neighbors are getting suspicious.
As a matter of fact, we sent a man to the Silverstone home yesterday afternoon. Our man even arrived before the "Chronicle" reporter. And there's no proof that the woman was murdered - or even that she's dead.
If the headline is big enough, it makes the new big enough. The murder of Mrs. Harry Silverstone -
There is no news big enough.
I'm still hungry, Brad. Let's go to Rector's and get something decent. The "Chronicle" has a two-column headline, Mr. Carter. Why haven't we?
Because we're running a newspaper, Mr. Kane, not a scandal sheet.
I'm not criticizing, Mr. Carter, but here's what I mean. There's a front page story in the "Chronicle," and a picture - of a woman in Brooklyn who is missing. Probably murdered. A Mrs. Harry Silverstone. Why didn't the "Enquirer" have that this morning?
That's one of the things I think must be changed, Mr. Carter. The news goes on for twenty-four hours a day.
But a morning newspaper, Mr. Kane. After all, we're practically closed twelve hours a day - except for the business offices -
I'm going to live right here. As long as I have to.
My little sanctum is at your disposal. But I don't think I understand -
You've got a private office here, haven't you?
How do you do, Mr. Bernstein?
Mr. Carter, this is Mr. Bernstein. Mr. Bernstein is my general manager.
I don't my plans myself.
You may resume your work, gentlemen. I didn't know your plans and so I was unable to make any preparations.
Ask them to sit down.
I thought it would be a nice gesture - the new publisher -
Are they standing for me?
How do you do, Mr. Leland?
Thank you, Mr Carter. This is Mr. Leland.
Welcome, Mr. Kane, to the "Enquirer." I am Herbert Carter.
He used to work fast - didn't he, Mr. Bernstein?
We haven't heard from him.
Has he said when he'll finish?
Yes, Mr. Kane.
That's Leland, isn't it?
No, Mr. Kane.
It isn't finished?
But there's another one still to come - the dramatic notice.
Yes, Mr. kane.
Is it good?
Yes - Mr. Kane.
And the notice?
Exactly according to your instructions, Mr. Kane. We've got two spreads of pictures.
Was the show covered by every department?
We've got a nice plant here.
Mr. Kane, this is a surprise!
Not at all. I'd like the nurse to be here, too.
There are no objections to my staying here with her, are there?
I'm sure that's it.
Thank you. I can't imagine how Mrs. Kane came to make such a silly mistake. The sedative Dr. Wagner gave her is in a somewhat larger bottle - I suppose the strain of preparing for her trip has excited and confused her.
The nurse has complete instructions, but if you care to talk to me at any time, I should be only too glad - I shall be here in the morning.
I'd rather Mr. Kane withdrew without having to get the story published. Not that I care about him. But I'd be better off that way - - and so would you, Mrs. Kane.
You don't have to show me anything, Mr. Rogers. I believe you.
The story about him and Miss Alexander, Mrs. Kane.
What story, Mr. Rogers?
I think I understand, Mr. Rogers, but I wonder if -
I'm protecting myself every way I know how, Mrs. Kane. This last week, I finally found out how I can stop your husband from being elected. If the people of this state learn what I found out this week, he wouldn't have a chance to - he couldn't be elected Dog Catcher. Well, what I'm interested in is seeing that he's not elected. I don't care whether they know what I know about him. Let him keep right on being the Great, Noble, Moral - Champeen of the people. Just as long as -
Let him finish, Charles.
Charles! Your - your breaking this man's neck - would scarcely explain this note - Serious consequences for Mr. Kane - for myself, and for my son. What does this note mean, Miss -
Maybe you can do it and maybe you can't, Mr. Kane.
I made Miss - Miss Alexander send you the note. She was a little unwilling at first - but she did it.
How do you do? I came here - and I made Mr. Kane come with me... because I recieved this note -
If you're asking me to sympathize with him, Brad, you're wasting your time. There's only one person I'm sorry for, as a matter of fact. That - that shabby little girl. I'm really sorry for her, Brad.
He's paying for it, Emily. Those returns tonight - he's finished. Politically - - socially, everywhere, I guess. I don't know about the papers, but -
I know it is, Brad -
It's - all over -
Brad, I'm - I'm not an old woman yet -
Emily, you -
Maybe I should have - the first time he showed me what a mad dog he really was.
I know that, Emily -
There aren't any personal lives for people like us. He made that very clear to me nine years ago - If I'd thought of my life with Charles as a personal life, I'd have left him then -
Emily, you're being - a little unfair - You know what I think of Charles' behavior - about your personal lives -
Why should anyone vote for him? He's made it quite clear to the people what he thinks of them. Children - to be told one thing one day, something else the next, as the whim seizes him. And they're supposed to be grateful and love and adore him - because he sees to it that they get cheap ice and only pay a nickel in the street cars.
I'm surprised he got the votes he did.
Almost two to one -
Chicago is pretty close to New York nowadays - only twenty hours -
I'm sorry I sent for you, Brad - I didn't -
Hello, Brad -
Too late for what? Too late for you and this - this public thief to take the love of the people of this state away from me? Well, you won't do it, I tell you. You won't do it!
Charles, if you don't listen to reason, it may be too late -
Go on! Get out! I can fight this thing all alone!
You decided what you were going to do, Charles - some time ago. You can't always have it your own way, regardless of anything else that may have happened. Come on, Charles.
There's only one person in the world to decide what I'm going to do - and that's me. And if you think - if any of you think -
I don't think so. Are you coming, Charles?
Oh yes, there is.
I'm not interested in the voters of this state right now. I am interested in - well, Junior, for one thing.
I suppose so, but - I'm not afraid of the story. You can't tell me that the voters of this state -
Charles, this - this story - doesn't concern only you. I'll be in it, too, won't I? And Junior?
Oh, they'll publish it all right. But that's not going to stop me -
I don't see what else you can do, Charles. If he's right - and the papers publish this story he has -
You don't think I'm going to let this blackmailer intimidate me, do you?
You're a cheap, crooked grafter - and your concern for your children and your mother -
I'm going to - - 185 West 74th Street.
I insist on being told exactly what you have in mind.
I intend to find out.
It may not be about anything at all.
What's this all about, Emily? I've had a very tiring day and -
No, it can't. Good night, darling.
It can wait.
There's a call I want you to make with me, Charles.
But I'd arranged to go home with you myself.
I'm sending Junior home in the car, Charles - with Oliver -
They won't hurt you, darling. Mother's with you! Mother's looking after you!
Emily - you musn't leave me now - you can't do that to me.
Here I am, darling... Darling!... Darling, it's all right... Mother's here.
I've tried to tell you, Emily. The President's going to be all right. He had a comfortable night. There's no danger of any kind.
Have they heard from father yet? Has he seen -
Please don't talk any more, Charles.
They won't do anything to Junior, darling. Anonymous letter writers - I've got guards in front of the house, and I'm going to arrange -
What do you expect me to do? What in the world -
Susan, don't go! Susan, please!
Let's not start all over again, Charlie. We've said everything that can be said.
Don't go, Susan.
You can't stop me.
I won't let you go.
- And left? Of course they'll hear. I'm not saying goodbye - except to you - but I never imagined that people wouldn't know.
Don't you realize that everybody here is going to know about this? That you've packed your bags and ordered the car and -
No, you're not.
I'm going to leave you.
I'm not sorry.
Don't tell me you're sorry.
Susan, it seems to me -
You'll never have another chance to hit me again. I never knew till this minute -
Love! You don't love anybody! Me or anybody else! You want to be loved - that's all you want! I'm Charles Foster Kane. Whatever you want - just name it and it's yours! Only love me! Don't expect me to love you -
You're talking an incredible amount of nonsense, Susan. Whatever I do - I do - because I love you.
Well, I'm not going to stop it. I'm going to say exactly what I think. You've never given me anything. You've tried to buy me into giving you something. You're - - it's like you were bribing me! That's what it's been from the first moment I met you. No matter how much it cost you - your time, your money - that's what you've done with everybody you've ever known. Tried to bribe them!
Susan, I want you to stop this. And right now!
Oh, I don't mean the things you've given me - that don't mean anything to you. What's the difference between giving me a bracelet or giving somebody else a hundred thousand dollars for a statue you're going to keep crated up and never look at? It's only money. It doesn't mean anything. You're not really giving anything that belongs to you, that you care about.
Susan, I really think -
What you want me to want, you mean. What you've decided I ought to have - what you'd want if you were me. But you've never given me anything that -
As far as you're concerned, Susan, I've never wanted anything - I don't want anything now - except what you want.
I'll discuss what's on my mind when I want to. You're not going to keep on running my life the way you want it.
We can discuss all this some other time, Susan. Right now -
I'm not just your wife, I'm a person all by myself - or I ought to be. I was once. Sometimes you get me to believing I never was.
You're my wife, Susan, and -
Oh, I'm sick and tired of you telling me what I must and what I musn't do!
I've got more than a right as far as you're concerned, Susan.
I'm not going to have my guests insulted, just because you think - - if people want to bring a drink or two along on a picnic, that's their business. You've got no right -
You're in a tent, darling. You're not at home. And I can hear you very well if you just talk in a normal tone of voice.
I mean it. Oh, I know I always say I mean it, and then I don't - or you get me so I don't do what I say I'm going to - but -
Invite everybody! Order everybody, you mean, and make them sleep in tents! Who wants to sleep in tents when they have a nice room of their own - with their own bath, where they know where everything is?
I was referring to myself. I thought we might have a picnic tomorrow - it might be a nice change after the Wild West party tonight. Invite everybody to go to the Everglades -
It's not a habit. I do it because I like it.
You may be right - I sometimes wonder - but you get into the habit -
It makes a whole lot more sense than collecting Venuses.
Can't we go back, Charlie?
You always said you wanted to live in a palace.
Hurray for the bulldog! Half past eleven! The shows have just let out. People are going to night clubs and restaurants. Of course, we're different. We live in a palace - at the end of the world.
Yes. The bulldog's just gone to press.
Half past eleven.
I mean in New York.
Half past eleven.
Charlie! I said, what time is it?
That's when you've got to fight them. That's when you've got to make them. That's -
I couldn't make you see how I felt, Charlie. I just couldn't - I couldn't go threw with singing again. You don't know what it means to feel - to know that people - that an audience don't want you. That if you haven't got what they want - a real voice - they just don't care about you. Even when they're polite - and they don't laugh or get restless or - you know... They don't want you. They just 0
Then you have no alibi at all. Please sing.
Oh, no, that's all gone.
Don't tell me your toothache is bothering you again?
Well, I -
Yes, I would. That's why I asked.
Oh, you wouldn't want to hear me sing.
Would you sing for me?
As a matter of fact, I do sing a little.
Oh, no! Nothing like that. Mother always thought - she used to talk about Grand Opera for me. Imagine! An American girl, for one thing - and then my voice isn't really that kind anyway, it's just that Mother - you know what mothers are like.
What happened to the singing? You're not in a show, are you?
I want to be a singer. I mean, I didn't. Mother did for me.
Is that what you want to do?
I work at Seligman's.
That's a ripe old age - What do you do?
Pretty old. I'll be twenty-two in August.
I didn't think you did. If you had, I wouldn't have asked you again, because I'd have remembered. How old?
I didn't say.
How old did you say you were?
Oh, me -
Who am I? Well, let's see. Charles Foster Kane was born in New Salem, Colorado in eighteen six - I run a couple of newspapers. How about you?
I was only joking! This evening I was on my way to the Western Manhattan Warehouses - in search of my youth.
I didn't run into you and I bet they're not your Sunday clothes. You've probably got a lot of clothes.
And I know too many people. Obviously, we're both lonely. Would you like to know where I was going tonight - when you ran into me and ruined my Sunday clothes?
You've been wonderful! I can't tell you how glad I am you're here, I don't know many people and -
But you like me, don't you? Even though you don't know who I am?
No. That is, I bet it turns out I've heard your name a million times, only you know how it is -
You really don't know who I am?
Excuse me, Mr. Kane. I know this takes a lot of nerve, but - who are you? I mean - I'm pretty ignorant, I guess you caught on to that -
You're getting farther away all the time. It's a duck.
No. But you're close.
I'll get these streets fixed, if it's the last thing I do.
I've got a brush in the closet. As soon as the mud on your trousers is all dry - you just brush it off.
On the chiffonier. Here.
Where's the towel?
I know... But you do look so silly.
I can't stay here all night chasing your pain away.
I always like to see the funny side of things. No sense crying when you don't have to. And you're so funny. Looking at you, I forget all about my toothache.
You're very easily amused.
In the water.
Where's the soap?
No. They've passed on.
I'm sorry. They live here, too?
Hey, you should be more careful. That's my ma and pa.
If you want to come in and wash your face - I can get you some hot water to get that dirt off your trousers -
You're no Venus de Milo.
You are. You look like you've been making mud pies.
What's funny now?
If these sidewalks were kept in condition - instead of the money going to some cheap grafter -
You've got some on your face.
What's the matter with you?
What are you waiting here for? Why don't you go?
Charlie, please don't -
Get out, both of you!
I know exactly what I'm doing. Get out!
Charlie, you're just excited. You don't realize -
Charlie, he said, unless you withdrew your name -
You can't blackmail me, Rogers, you can't -
Rogers, I don't think I will postpone doing something about you until I'm elected. To start with, I'll break your neck.
I can't tell you the things he said, Charlie. You haven't got any idea -
Don't you worry about me. I'm Charles Foster Kane. I'm no cheap, crooked politician, trying to save himself from the consequences of his crimes -
You're the greatest fool I've ever known, Kane. If it was anybody else, I'd say what's going to happen to you would be a lesson to you. Only you're going to need more than one lesson. And you're going to get more than one lesson.
Get out! I've got nothing to talk to you about. If you want to see me, have the Warden write me a letter.
You're making a bigger fool of yourself than I thought you would, Mr. Kane. You're licked. Why don't you -
Mrs. Kane, I'm not asking you to believe me. I'd like to show you -
You do anything you want to do. The people of this state can decide which one of us to trust. If you want to know, they've already decided. The election Tuesday'll be only -
I'm going to be elected governor. And the first thing I'm going to do -
Anything you say, Mr. Kane. Only we're talking now about what you are. That's what the note is about, Mrs. Kane. Now I'm going to lay all my cards on the table. I'm fighting for my life. Not just my political life. My life. If your husband is elected governor -
I'm not a gentleman, Mrs. Kane, and your husband is just trying to be funny calling me one. I don't even know what a gentleman is. You see, my idea of a gentleman, Mrs. Kane - well, if I owned a newspaper and if I didn't like the way somebody else was doing things - some politican, say - I'd fight them with everything I had. Only I wouldn't show him in a convict suit, with stripes - so his children could see the picture in the paper. Or his mother. It's pretty clear - I'm not a gentleman.
In case you don't know, Emily, this - this gentleman - is -
She doesn't know, Mrs. Kane. She just sent it - because I made her see it wouldn't be smart for her not to send it.
You've made your point perfectly clear, Mr. Kane. Good day.
I'm much obliged, Mr. President, for your concern about me. However, I happen to be concerned at this moment with the matter of extensive oil lands belonging to the people of the United States, and I say that if this lease goes through, the property of the people of the United States goes into the hands of -
I understand that you have political ambitions. Unfortunately, you seem incapable of allowing any other opinion but your own -
I know the facts, Mr. Kane. And I happen to have the incredible insolence to differ with you as to what they mean. You're a man of great talents, Mr. Kane.
It's the only vein I know. I tell the facts the way I see them. And any man that knows that facts -
I must refuse to allow you to continue in this vein, Mr. Kane.
I'm not suggesting anything, Mr. President! I've come here to tell you that, unless some action is taken promptly - and you are the only one who can take it - the oil that is the property of the people of this country will be turned over for a song to a gang of high-pressure crooks!
It is the unanimous opinion of my Cabinent - in which I concur - that the proposed leases are in the best interests of the Governement and the people. You are not, I hope, suggesting that these interests are not indentical?
Mr. Kane, how can I persuade you -
If you're interested in what people say, Signor Matisti, I may be able to enlighten you a bit. The newspapers, for instance. I'm an authority on what the papers will say, Signor Matisti, because I own eight of them between here and San Francisco... It's all right, dear. Signor Matisti is going to listen to reason. Aren't you, maestro?
But, it is impossible. I will be the laughingstock of the musical world! People will say -
Your job isn't to give Mrs. Kane your opinion of her talents. You're supposed to train her voice. Nothing more.
You're right. We did lose a million dollars last year.
I happened to see your consolidated statement yesterday, Charles. Could I not suggest to you that it is unwise for you to continue this philanthropic enterprise - this Enquirer - that is costing you one million dollars a year?
On the other hand - I am the publisher of the Enquirer. As such, it is my duty - I'll let you in on a little secret, it is also my pleasure - to see to it that decent, hard-working people of this city are not robbed blind by a group of money- mad pirates because, God help them, they have no one to look after their interests! I'll let you in on another little secret, Mr. Thatcher. I think I'm the man to do it. You see, I have money and property -
Charles, my time is too valuable for me -
As Charles Foster Kane, who has eighty- two thousand, six hundred and thirty-one shares of Metropolitan Transfer - you see, I do have a rough idea of my holdings - I sympathize with you. Charles Foster Kane is a dangerous scoundrel, his paper should be run out of town and a committee should be formed to boycott him. You may, if you can form such a committee, put me down for a contribution of one thousand dollars.
The trouble is, Mr. Thatcher, you don't realize you're talking to two people.
They're all part of your general attack - your senseless attack - on everything and everybody who's got more than ten cents in his pocket. They're -
Mr. Thatcher, isn't everything I've been saying in the Enquirer about the traction trust absolutely true?
Won't you step into my office, Mr. Thatcher?
I came to see you, Charles, about your - about the Enquirer's campaign against the Metropolitan Transfer Company.
I think we'll have to send our friend Wheeler a cable, Mr. Bernstein. Of course, we'll have to make it shorter than his, because he's working on an expense account and we're not. Let me see - Mike!
You see! There hasn't been a true word -
Can you prove it isn't?
"Enemy Armada Off Jersey Coast." You know you haven't the slightest proof that this - this armada - is off the Jersey Coast.
I don't know how to run a newspaper, Mr. Thatcher. I just try everything I can think of.
Is that really your idea of how to run a newspaper?
Where'm I going?
Your mother won't be going right away, Charles -
You goin', Mom?
I didn't used to be afraid of it.
No, I don't, Mr. Kane.
He was dead... That's a poem. Do you know what it means?
How did you get him to part with it, Mr. Kane?
Persia. It belonged to a king.
It's a wall you bought in China, Mr. Kane.
Do you know what that is?
Oh, yes, sir.
Not my wife - not either of them.
Yes, Mr. Kane.
Mrs. Kane liked poetry -
Can't say, sir.
Do you like poetry, Raymond?
Yes, sir -
Lock it - and keep it locked.
Close the door, Raymond.
Marie has been packing since morning, Mr. Kane.
Is Mrs. Kane -
Mrs. Kane would like to see you, Mr. Kane.
Get Dr. Corey.
Hello, Charlie - I didn't know we were speaking.
I couldn't possibly live on as little as that, Charlie. We'll let the salary stay where it is.
Well, you've been getting a pretty low salary here in New York. It seems to me that the new dramatic critic of our Chicago paper should get what he's worth.
You still want to be transferred to the other paper?
Hey, Brad! I've been analyzed an awful lot tonight - let's have another brandy.
I know you will.
She can leave me. As a matter of fact, I've already left her. Don't worry, Brad - I'll live.
It's simpler than that, Brad. A society girl can't stand the gaff, that's all. Other things are important to her - social position, what they're saying on the front porches at Southampton, is it going to be embarrassing to meet somebody or the other at dinner -
You want love on your own terms, don't you, Charlie - Love according to your own rules. And if anything goes wrong and you're hurt - then the game stops, and you've got to be soothed and nursed, no matter what else is happening - and no matter who else is hurt!
Nothing - if she dosen't love me -
That's all right. What are you going to do about Emily?
You're not going to like it in Chicago. They wind comes howling in from the lake. And there's practically no opera season at all - and the Lord only knows whether they've ever heard of Lobster Newburg -
Yes. Now, will you let me go to Chicago?
Are you finished?
You talk about the people of the United States as though they belonged to you. When you find out they don't think they are, you'll lose interest. You talk about giving them their rights as though you could make a present of liberty. Remember the working man? You used to defend him quite a good deal. Well, he's turning into something called organized labor and you don't like that at all. And listen, when your precious underprivileged really get together - that's going to add up to something bigger than - than your privilege and then I don't know what you'll do - sail away to a desert island, probably, and lord it over the monkeys.
You almost convince me. I'm just drunk enough to tell you the truth. I have to be a little drunk for that because I'm a coward. You know that. That's why you keep me around. You only associate with your inferiors, Charlie. I guess that's why you ran away from Emily. Because you can't stand the company of your equals. You don't like to admit they exist - the other big people in your world are dead. I told you that.
The personal note is all there is to it. It's all there ever is to it. It's all there every is to anything! Stupidity in our government, complacency and self-satisfaction and unwillingness to believe that anything done by a certain class of people can be wrong - you can't fight those things impersonally. They're not impersonal crimes against people. They're being done by actual persons - with actual names and positions and - the right of the American people to own their own country is not an academic issue, Brad, that you debate - and then the judges retire to return a verdict and the winners give a dinner for the losers.
There's no reason why this - this savage personal note -
You might have made the whole thing less personal!
Do you think the "Enquirer" shouldn't have campaigned against the oil leases?
She hasn't any friends left sine you started this oil business, and she never sees you.
Why is she leaving me?
Sure I am. She wants full custody of the child no matter what happens. If you won't agree to that, she'll apply for a divorce regardless of the President's wishes. I can't tell her she's wrong, because she isn't wrong -
Brad, you are drunk.
Emily's going south next week with the child. As far as anybody's to know, it's a holiday. When they get back -
She was going to leave you anyway -
I don't think so, Brad. We've just had word that the President is out of danger. It seems I didn't kill him after all.
She's going to leave you -
No, that won't help. Besides, you never get drunk. I wanted to talk about you and Emily.
I'll tell you what I'll do, Brad - I'll get drunk, too - maybe that'll help.
I want to be transferred to the new paper. You've been saying yourself you wish you had somebody to - That's not what I wanted to talk about.
Charlie, it's just no go. We can't agree anymore. I wish you'd let me go to Chicago.
That's just a little promotion scheme. Nobody expects you - Mike, will you try and get Mr. Leland some coffee?
First of all, I will not write a good review of a play because somebody paid a thousand dollars for an advertisement in the "Enquirer."
I'll get you some coffee.
What's wrong, Brad?
First of all -
I'd like to talk to you about that.
I've got to think of Emily -
I don't have to. I run a newspaper with half a million readers and they're getting a martyred president this morning with their breakfast. I can't help that. Besides, they all know I'm married to his niece. I've got to think of her.
Charlie! Now you're not making sense.
What lesson? Not to expose fraud when I see it? Not to fight for the right of the people to own their own property? Run it the way I said, Reilly - "This afternoon a great man was assassinated -"
There are the people of the United States, and they are blaming you - Oh, I know it doesn't make any sense, but at least you can learn a lesson from it.
Look out that window.
Oil belonging to the people of the United States was leased out for a song to a gang of high-pressure crooks - Nobody can blame me because -
They're true! Everything I said! Witholding that veto was treason!
You've said a lot of things about the President in the last few months.
I said treason was a capital offense punishable by death -
- and that copy of the "Enquirer" said the President should be killed.
Because the crackpot who did it had a copy of the "Enquirer" in his pocket?
Yesterday morning you called the President a traitor. What do you think that crowd is doing down there? They think you murdered him.
What do you mean by that?
Why not? Well - nobody's a great man in your estimation until he's dead.
Do you think you're the one who should call him a great man?
Take dictation - Front page editorial - "This afternoon a great man was assassinated. He was the President of the United States -"
You're wrong. It does make a difference to you - Rector's, Brad? Come to think of it, I don't blame you for not wanting to be a war correspondent. You won't miss anything. It isn't much of a war. Besides, they tell me there isn't a decent restaurant on the whole island.
It doesn't make any difference about me, but one of these days you're going to find out that all this charm of yours won't be enough -
You start tomorrow night. Richard Carl in "The Spring Chicken." I'll get us some girls. You get tickets. A drama critic gets them free, you know. Rector's at seven?
I'd like that.
You don't want to be a war correspondent - how about being a dramatic critic?
I mean I've got a job for you.
Say, Brad. I've got an idea.
And I do it because they do it, and they do it - it's a vicious circle, isn't it? I'm going over to Georgie's, Brad - you know, Georgie, don't you?
They do it only because you do!
How would the "Enquirer" look with no news about this non-existent war - with Benton, Pulitzer and Heart devoting twenty columns a day to it?
Charles, I tell you there is no war! There's a condition that should be remedied - but between that and a -
All right, Brad, all right - you don't have to be a war correspondent unless you want to - I'd want to. Hello, Georgie.
But there is no Front, Charlie. There's a very doubtful civil war. Besides, I don't want the job.
It'll be our first foreign war in fifty years, Brad. We'll cover it the way the "Hickville Gazette" covers the church social! The names of everybody there; what they wore; what they ate; who won the prizes; who gave the prizes - I tell you, Brad, I envy you. By Bradford Leland, the "Enquirer's" Special Correspondent at the Front. I'm almost tempted -
Our readers are, anyway, I don't know about the rest of the country.
Well, gentlemen, are we going to war?
It's a good idea for a newspaper. Four hundred sixy thousand.
The "Chronicle" is a good newspaper.
People are going to know who's responsible. And they're going to get the news - the true news - quickly and simply and entertainingly. And no special interests will be allowed to interfere with the truth of that news.
That's the second sentence you've started with "I" -
What're you going to do, Charlie?
I've changed the front page a little, Mr. Bernstein. That's not enough - There's something I've got to get into this paper besides pictures and print - I've got to make the "New York Enquirer" as important to New York as the gas in that light.
A wasted day.
It's been a tough day.
What makes those fellows think that a newspaper is something rigid, something inflexible, that people are supposed to pay two cents for -
Poor Mr. Carter!
I think it's beginning to dawn on Mr. Rogers that I mean what I say. With Mr. Rogers out of the way, Reilly, I think we may really begin to hope for a good government in this state. Well, Mr. Bernstein?
Rogers isn't even pretending. He isn't just scared anymore. He's sick. Frank Norris told me last night he hasn't known Rogers to be that worried in twenty-five years.
It does seem too good to be true, doesn't it, Mr. Bernstein?
It was for twenty-five thousand dollars.
Oh, yes, the bonus.
You made it out to him last week after he left for Chicago.
Mr. Leland sent back that check.
We'll withdraw support completely. Anything else?
What do you mean by that?
Maybe we'd better wait for more word on the President's condition.
That's what you think, is it, Jim?
Sorry, Mr. Thatcher! What the kid needs is a good thrashing!
You won't be lonely, Charles...
You're going to live with Mr. Thatcher from now on, Charlie! You're going to be rich. Your Ma figures - that is, er - she and I have decided that this isn't the place for you to grow up in. You'll probably be the richest man in America someday and you ought to -
That's the train with all the lights.
Mr. Thatcher is going to take you on a trip with him tonight, Charles. You'll be leaving on Number Ten.
It is. Go on, Mr. Thatcher -
Well, let's hope it's all for the best.
If I want to, I can go to court. A father has a right to -
It's going to be done exactly the way I've told Mr. Thatcher -
You people seem to forget that I'm the boy's father.
I'll sign those papers -
Sure, Mr. Leland. I'll be glad to.
On your way out, stop at a cigar store, will you, and send me up a couple of cigars?
I don't know. He was disappointed in the world. So he built one of his own - An absolute monarchy - It was something bigger than an opera house anyway - Nurse! Say, I'll tell you one thing you can do for me, young fellow.
That must have been love.
I guess maybe I'm not as hard to see through as I think. Anyway, I never even answered his letter. Maybe I should have. I guess he was pretty lonely down there those last years. He hadn't finished it when she left him - he never finished it - he never finished anything. Of course, he built it for her -
Well, that's about all there is - and I'm getting chills. Hey, nurse! Five years ago, he wrote from that place of his down South - - you know. Shangri-la? El Dorado? Sloppy Joe's? What's the name of that place? You know... All right. Xanadu. I knew what it was all the time. You caught on, didn't you?
He married for love - That's why he did everything. That's why he went into politics. It seems we weren't enough. He wanted all the voters to love him, too. All he really wanted out of life was love. That's Charlie's story - it's the story of how he lost it. You see, he just didn't have any to give. He loved Charlie Kane, of course, very dearly - and his mother, I guess he always loved her. As for Emily - well, all I can tell you is Emily's story as she told it to me, which probably isn't fair - there's supposed to be two sides to every story - and I guess there are. I guess there's more than two sides -
Was he in love?
Brief marriage! Ten years!
I am in receipt of your favor of yesterday. I beg you to do me the courtesy of accepting my assurance that Mrs. Whitehall cannot be induced to contribute any more information on the career of Charles Foster Kane. She has authorized me to state on previous occasions that she regards their brief marriage as a distateful episode in her life that she prefers to forget. With assurances of the highest esteem -
He knows the first Mrs. Kane socially - That's the answer we got.
Oh, yes. I know about Mr. Rawlston.
Rawlston is my boss.
David, Grobleski & Davis - My dear Rawlston -
It's a letter from her lawyers.
I can remember everything. That's my curse, young man. It's the greatest curse that's ever been inflicted on the human race. Memory - I was his oldest friend. As far as I was concerned, he behaved like swine. Maybe I wasnt' his friend. If I wasn't, he never had one. Maybe I was what nowadays you call a stooge -
Maybe you could remember something that -
Never mind - Bernstein told you about the first days at the office, didn't he? Well, Charlie was a bad newspaper man even then. He entertained his readers, but he never told them the truth.
Sorry, Mr. Leland.
You don't happen to have a cigar, do you? I've got a young physician - must remember to ask to see his license - the odds are a hundred to one he hasn't got one - who thinks I'm going to stop smoking... I changed the subject, didn't I? Dear, dear! What a disagreeable old man I've become. You want to know what I think of Charlie Kane? Well - I suppose he has some private sort of greatness. But he kept it to himself. He never - gave himself away - He never gave anything away. He just - left you a tip. He had a generous mind. I don't suppose anybody ever had so many opinions. That was because he had the power to express them, and Charlie lived on power and the excitement of using it - But he didn't believe in anything except Charlie Kane. He never had a conviction in his life. I guess he died without one - That must have been pretty unpleasant. Of course, a lot of us check out with no special conviction about death. But we do know what we're leaving ... we believe in something. You're absolutely sure you haven't got a cigar?
Mr. Leland, you were -
How do you do, Charles?
This is Mr. Thatcher, Charles.
Charles, my name is Mr. Thatcher -
Right here, Mrs. Kane.
Where do I sign, Mr. Thatcher?
We will assume full management of the Colorado Lode - of which you, Mrs. Kane, are the sole owner.
I want you to stop all this nonsense, Jim.
The Bank's decision in all matters concerning his education, his place of residence and similar subjects will be final.
I want you to stop all this nonsense, Jim.
Kane's last words, aren't they, Jerry? That was Jerry's angle, wasn't it, Jerry? Did you ever find out what it means, Jerry?
Turn that thing off, will you? It's driving me nuts! What's Rosebud?
Or Rosebud? How about it, Jerry?
I wonder - You put all this together - the palaces and the paintings and the toys and everything - what would it spell?
Anything and everything - he was a regular crow.
I wonder how they put all those pieces together?
There's a part of a Scotch castle over there, but we haven't bothered to unwrap it.
Yeah, all in crates.
I'll get to it right away, Mr. Rawlston.
Nothing is ever better than finding out what makes people tick. Go after the people that knew Kane well. That manager of his - the little guy, Bernstein, those two wives, all the people who knew him, had worked for him, who loved him, who hated his guts - I don't mean go through the City Directory, of course -
But don't you think if we release it now - he's only been dead four days - it might be better than if -
Hold this thing up for a week. Two weeks if you have to...
All we saw on that screen was a big American -
I know, but -
Ask the question anyway, Thompson! Build the picture around the question, even if you can't answer it.
Yes, and maybe he didn't.
Oh, I don't know. They'll clear all right.
The banks are out of luck, eh?
Millions - if anybody wants it.
What do you think all that is worth, Mr. Thompson?
We're leaving tonight. As soon as they're through photographing the stuff -
You can go on asking questions if you want to.
See what I mean? He was a little gone in the head - the last couple of years, anyway - but I knew how to handle him. That "Rosebud" - that don't mean anything. I heard him say it. He just said "Rosebud" and then he dropped that glass ball and it broke on the floor. He didn't say anything about that, so I knew he was dead - He said all kind of things I couldn't make out. But I knew how to take care of him.
Well, thanks a lot.
Yes and no.
Sentimental fellow, aren't you?
That's the whole works, right up to date.
Yeah. I guess he wasn't very happy those last years - he didn't have much reason to be -
Yes, sir - yes, sir, I knew how to handle the old man. He was kind of queer, but I knew how to handle him.
I know. If you're smart, you'll talk to Raymond. That's the butler. You can learn a lot from him. He knows where the bodies are buried.
Monday, with some of the boys from the office. Mr. Rawlston wants the whole place photographed carefully - all that art stuff. We run a picture magazine, you know -
Don't you think I do? You say you're going down to Xanadu?
I feel kind of sorry for him, all the same -
They haven't been tough on me. I just lost my money. But when I compare these last ten years with the twenty I spent with him -
The last ten years have been tough on a lot of people.
In case you've never heard of how I lost all my money - and it was plenty, believe me -
He wanted me to be comfortable - Oh, why should I bother? You don't believe me, but it's true. It just happens to be true. He was really interested in my voice. What are you smiling for? What do you think he built that opera house for? I didn't want it. I didn't want to sing. It was his idea - everything was his idea - except my leaving him.
What about that apartment?
He was in love with me. But he never told me so until after it all came out in the papers about us - and he lost the election and that Norton woman divorced him.
He married you, didn't he?
I didn't get a thing. Just the music lessons. That's all there was to it.
What do you mean?
What did you get?
I did a lot of singing after that. I sang for Charlie - I sang for teachers at a hundred bucks an hour - the teachers got that, I didn't -
I had a toothache.
How did you meet him?
You wouldn't want to hear a lot of what comes into my mind about myself and Mr. Charlie Kane.
I'd rather you just talked. Anything that comes into your mind - about yourself and Mr. Kane.
How do you want to handle the whole thing - ask questions?
Get out of here! Get out! Get out!
If you'd just let me talk to you for a little while, Miss Alexander. All I want to ask you...
Why don't you people let me alone? I'm minding my own business. You mind yours.
Oh! I thought maybe we could have a drink together?
Who told you you could sit down here?
I'll come down in a week or so and see her again. Say, you might be able to help me. When she used to talk about Kane - did she ever happen to say anything - about Rosebud?
She'll snap out of it. Why, until he died, she'd just as soon talk about Mr. Kane as about anybody. Sooner.
She's plastered, isn't she?
I'm not from a newspaper exactly, I -
She's just not talking to anybody from the newspapers, Mr. Thompson.
I'll have a highball.
Right away. Will you have something, Mr. Thompson?
This? How long have you been smoking?
Pack of cigarettes. What's that?
I'll just take the gum.
It's a picture of a cancer-ridden lung. Keep it.
It's cheaper than cigarettes. And it certainly beats this.
It's not the same.
It's never too late. Give those cigarettes back now, and buy some gum instead. Here. Chewlies Gum. Try this.
Well, if it's already too late...
He smoked until the day he died. Used to put the cigarette in this thing and smoke it that way.
It's a trach ring. It's what they install in your throat when throat cancer takes your voice box. This one came out of a sixty-year-old man.
You think I'm shitting you...
You're shittin' me.
That's your lung. By this time, your lung looks like this.
What the hell is that?
I'd say you're about nineteen, twenty, am I right?
What is this, a poll?
How long have you been smoking?
Are you serious?
Do you really want to buy those cigarettes?
Am I sure about what?
Are you sure?
Am I sure?
Are you sure?
The ones in this town, yes! You encourage their growth, their habit. You're the source in this area, and we're going to shut you down for good! For good, cancer-merchant!
Like I'm responsible for all the smokers!
What better place than this? To stamp it out, you gotta start at the source!
Yeah, but not in here.
We're not moving! We have a right, a constitutional right, to assemble and be heard!
That's it, everybody out.
You're the disturbance, pal! And here... I'm buying some... what's this?... Chewlie's Gum. There. I'm no longer loitering. I'm a customer, a customer engaged in a discussion with other customers.
You're loitering in here, and causing a disturbance.
You want me to leave? Why? Because somebody is telling it like it is? Somebody's giving these fine people a wake-up call?!
I think you'd better leave now.
Now he's going to launch into his rap about how he's just doing his job; following orders. Friends, let me tell you about another bunch of hate mongers that were just following orders: they were called Nazis, and they practically wiped a nation of people from the Earth... just like cigarettes are doing now! Cigarette smoking is the new Holocaust, and those that partake in the practice of smoking or sell the wares that promote it are the Nazis of the nineties! He doesn't care how many people die from it! He smiles as you pay for your cancer sticks and says, "Have a nice day."
Hey, now wait a sec...
Okay. I'm sorry about that.
If you're going to drink it in here, I'd appreciate it if you'd not bother the customers.
No, I think I'll drink it in here, thanks.
Maybe you should take that coffee outside.
You've made a wise choice. Keep up the good work.
This is where you're heading. A cruddy lung, smoking through a hole in your throat. Do you really want that?
Excuse me, but...
How long have you been a smoker?
Sure. Go ahead.
Do you mind if I drink this here?
Thanks. Have a good one.
I feel nauseous.
Nobody! I swear!
You two better quit it.
I was here the whole time.
You dog! I didn't see you go back there.
It was so cool. He didn't say a word. He was just... ready, you know? And we didn't kiss or talk or anything. He just sat there and let me do all the work.
I went back there, and Dante was already waiting for me.
Am I missing something here?
Awww. That was so cute.
Territoriality. He was mine first.
You're very protective of him, Randal. You always have been.
Hey Caitlin... Break his heart again this time, and I'll kill you. Nothing personal.
I'll try to manage.
And I'm caught in the middle-torn between my loyalty for the boss, and my desire to piss with the light on.
Such a sordid state of affair.
Nobody can figure it out. And the boss doesn't want to pay the electrician to fix it, because the electrician owes money to the video store.
Well, there are, but for some reason they stop working at five-fourteen every night.
Why aren't there any lights?
There's no light back there.
Can I use the bathroom?
No, this is great.
God, isn't he great?
He went home to change for the big date.
So where is he?
Wow. Hey, I was just about to order some dinner. You eat Chinese, right?
A woman's intuition. Something in me says it's time to give the old boy a serious try.
Few are. So what makes you think you can maintain a relationship with Dante this time around?
You might be let down. I'm not a hermaphrodite.
Can I join in?
You can hold me down.
Can I watch?
What can I say? He does weird things to me.
Wow, you got thrown out? For Dante?
She said not to come home until graduation.
Children's programming. What did your mom say when you told her you weren't engaged anymore?
You'd think she was marrying him. What are you watching?
I take it she likes the guy.
You saw that article? God, isn't it awful? My mother sent that in.
Ladies and gentleman, Mrs. Asian Design Major herself: Caitlin Bree!
Randal Graves-scourge of the video renter.
There's a strange man in our bathroom, and he just raped Caitlin!
Call the police.
I can't believe this! I feel faint...
I didn't just fuck myself! Jesus, I'm going to be sick!
Are you sure somebody was back there?
I'm not fooling around! Who went back there?
This isn't fucking funny, Dante!
I'm not kidding. I just got back from outside.
Stop this. This isn't funny.
We didn't just have sex in the bathroom?
Was it you?
Yeah, right. Who was it: Randal?
It wasn't me.
And the fact that there weren't any lights made it so... God! That was so great!
When you just lie perfectly still and let me do everything.
Promise me it'll always be like that.
Do you always talk weird after you violate women?
I left like an hour ago.
How'd you get here so fast?
I'm easy, but I'm not that easy. See you later, handsome.
What happened to the walk and the nakedness?
Well, me I guess. So, I shall take my leave of you, but I will return in a little while, at which time-yes-I would love to go for dinner and a movie with you.
You're too responsible. But no. I have to go home first. They don't even know I left school. And I should break the disengagement news to my mother, which is going to cause quite a row, considering she loves Sang.
He went to rent a movie, but he hasn't gotten back yet. Ah, screw it; I'll just lock the store up and leave him a note.
Where'd he go? I'd have thought he'd be at your side, like an obedient lapdog.
I'll ask Randal to close up for me when he gets back.
I can already tell this isn't going to work.
I'm just kidding.
You're such an asshole.
So what are you saying?
I offer you my body and you offer me semantics? He's just a boyfriend, Dante, and in case you haven't gotten the drift of why I came all the way here from Ohio, I'm about to become single again. And yes-let me placate your ego-you are the inspiration for this bold and momentous decision, for which I'll probably be ostracized at both school and home. You ask me who I choose, I choose you.
He's your fianc.
He's not invited.
What about Sing?
Jerk. Here I am, throwing myself at you, succumbing to your wily charms, and you call me a slut, in so many words.
I hear that's a rather popular date.
How about the Caitlin Bree Walk on the Boardwalk, Then Get Naked Somewhere Kind of Private Date?
You have a better suggestion?
The Dante Hicks Dinner and a Movie Date. I think I've been on that one before.
Yes. A real date. Dinner and a movie.
You mean, on a date?
Let me take you out tonight.
I don't know. Maybe we should just see what happens.
So... what? So we should just make pretend over the phone that we're dating?
The key word here is talk, Dante. I think the idea, the conception of us dating is more idyllic than what actually happens when we date.
Cute. Tell me you wouldn't want to go out again. After all the talking we've been doing.
You work in a market, all right.
Give me a bit more credit. I think it's time we got back together, you know. I'm more mature, you're more mature, you're finishing college, I'm already in the job market...
It's just the shock of seeing me after three years. Believe me, you'll get over it.
I would like to be your boyfriend, yes.
You're serious. You want to date again.
We could introduce them. They might hit it off.
I'm sure Sang and-Veronica?-would like that.
But can we date?
Good. Stay in that frame of mind.
So who's asking? I don't want to marry you.
I had to bring you down from that cloud you were floating on. When I say I don't want to get married, I mean just that. I don't want to marry anybody. Not for years.
Jesus, you're caustic.
If I'm so nuts about you, then why am I having sex with an Asian design major?
I just believe in giving credit where credit is due. And I believe that I'm the impetus behind your failure to wed.
Look how full of yourself you are.
You don't have anything to do with it.
Tell me I don't have something to do with it.
Why, Mr. Hicks-whatever do you mean?
There's more, isn't there?
I just told you.
If he's so nice, why aren't you going to marry him?
Stop it. He's a nice guy.
Sang? His name is a past tense?
I don't want to marry him. I don't want to get married now. I'm on the verge of graduation. I want to go to grad school after this. And then I want to start a career. I don't want to be a wife first, and then have to worry about when I'm going to fit in all of the other stuff. I've come way too far and studied too hard to let my education go to waste as a housewife. And I know that's what I'd become. Sang's already signed with a major firm, and he's going to be pulling a huge salary, which would give me no reason to work, and he's so traditional anyway...
I'm giving him his ring back.
Yeah, but not seriously. Christ, you're ready to walk down the aisle- I'd say that constitutes something more than just seeing somebody.
No, I wasn't. Not really. I told you'd I'd been seeing other people.
But you were.
The last thing I needed was for you to think I was hiding something from you.
And you came here to what? To comfort me?
I love a macho faade. It's such a turn-on. What smells like shoe polish?
Wreck is a harsh term. Disturbed is more like it. Mildly disturbed even.
Was I right?
Thanks for the vote of confidence.
Then my mother called me this morning and told me the announcement was in the paper. That's when I hopped the train to come back here, because I knew you'd be a wreck.
How like her.
The story goes like this: He proposed, and I told him I had to think about it, and he insisted I wear the ring anyway. Then my mother told the paper we were engaged.
No, you're not really getting married?
So you're really getting married?
Because I know you. You prefer drastic measures to rational ones.
How do you know that?
I would've told you, and you would have stopped calling, like a baby.
Is that what they teach you at that school of yours? Kind of, sort of? Everyone knows about this except me! Do you know how humiliating that is?
Well... kind of, sort of?
And you said yes?
I know, I'm sorry. But when we started talking... it's like I forgot I had a boyfriend. And then he proposed last month...
You could've broke it to me gently, you know; at least started by telling me you had a boyfriend. I told you I have a girlfriend.
I was going to tell you. But then we were getting along so well, I didn't want to mess it up.
Were you going to tell me or just send me an invitation?
I'm not pregnant.
What, it's worse? You're pregnant with an Asian design major's child?
It's not what you think.
Very dramatic, I thought.
You saw it?
I want to talk to you about something, and I don't want to be disturbed.
You're just going to lock the store like that?
I can't believe you're here.
Train. It took eight hours.
Let's not talk about that. How'd you get home?
I just saw Alyssa's little sister outside. She was with Rick Derris.
Dante. You've got a customer.
My God. I haven't seen you since...
When did you get back?
She thought it was me.
Shock trauma. She's going to need years of therapy after this. My question is, How did she come to have sex with the dead man?
What about Caitlin?
I can't say for certain until we get him back to the lab, but my guess is he was masturbating, his heart seized and he died. That's when the girl found him. Something smells like shoe polish.
Well he asked me for it!
No. I place the time of death at about three-twenty.
Was he alive when... Caitlin...
Everything happened at once. I guess I forgot he was back there.
With this guy locked in?
Nobody. It was closed.
Then who operated the store?
I thought you just said you played hockey and went to a funeral.
Wait a second? Who was working here today?
Um... I don't know. What time did hockey end?
What time was this?
I don't know. He just came in and asked to use the bathroom.
So I'm told.
Pack of cigarettes. Congratulations. I saw that announcement in today's paper. She's marrying an Asian design major.
To the back, above the oil. How long are you staying?
Excuse me, do you have...
This is the last time I ever come here. And if I ever see you again, I'm gonna break your fucking head open!
I know. I'm sorry. Let me refund your cigarette money, and we'll call it even.
Well, he missed!
Sir! Sir, I'm sorry! He didn't mean it! He was trying to get me.
I'M GONNA BREAK YOUR FUCKING HEAD! YOU FUCKING JERKOFF!
They certainly do. Two fifty-five.
"Space Alien Revealed as Head of Time Warner; Reports Stock Increase." They print any kind of shit in these papers.
My point is that you're a clerk, paid to do a job. You can't just do anything you want while you're working.
Are you open?
Give me a stick, pretty boy! I'll knock your fucking teeth out and pass all over your ass.
That's easy to say from over here.
I can whip your ass.
Like you're better!
I'll assess all I want!
Who are you to make assessments?
How 'bout covering point!? You suck!
I can pass!
Fuck in a second! This is... Look at you! You can't even pass!
In a second!
What the fuck is this?! I want some service!
Fuck that! I'm gonna break my crazy neck on this ladder!
If you can just wait a few more minutes.
Well, I don't know if sorry can make up for it. I found your remarks highly offensive.
We're sorry, ma'am. We got a little carried away.
Using filthy language in front of the customers... you should both get fired.
This is the last time I come to this place.
Pack of cigarettes.
Are you open?
Oooh! Navy Seals!
What am I worried about? He'll probably be glad I started the ball rolling. All he ever did was complain about her anyway. I'm just looking out for his best interests. I mean, that's what a friend does, am I right? I did him a favor.
Cute cat. What's his name.
So I'm no more responsible for my own decisions while I'm here at work than, say, the Death Squad soldiers in Bosnia?
I saw one, one time, that said the world was ending the next week. Then in the next week's paper, they said we were miraculously saved at the zero hour by a Koala-fish mutant bird. Crazy shit.
What's your point?
Pack of cigarettes.
Pack of cigarettes. Cute cat. What's its name?
Are you open?
I work in a shitty video store. I want to go to a good video store so I can rent a good movie.
Awww, he's so cute. What's his name?
Hey, neither did ET; but that was a great movie, right?
This doesn't even have Burt Reynolds in it.
All right, now if you're really feeling dangerous tonight, then Smokey and the Bandit Three is the movie you must rent.
We get... what... twelve minutes of game, and it's over? Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck!! I'm not even supposed to be here today!
I thought Redding had like three balls!
You only brought one ball?!
Hey man, I hear Caitlin's marrying an Asian drum major.
All right. Jesus, you fuckers are pushy.
What responsibility? You're closing the fucking store to play hockey.
I've got a responsibility here. I can't let everybody grab free drinks.
What do you care? Hey, what smells like shoe polish?
So? So nobody's going to want to pay for these Gatorades.
If you grab a Gatorade, then everybody's going to grab one.
Dante, let me grab a Gatorade.
I'm gone. I'll talk to you tomorrow.
Get the fuck outta here already.
Do you need a hug or something? 'Cause I would have no hang-ups about hugging you... you know, you being a guy and all. Just don't knead my ass when you do it.
To say the least.
No thanks. I'll take care of it. We've got a lot of shit to talk about.
All right. Good luck with Veronica. If you want, I can talk to her, you know, and explain...
I'll call you. Let you know.
You wanna grab something to eat tomorrow night... after I get out of here?
I'm calling out. Going to hit the hospital-see how Caitlin is. Then try to see Veronica.
Same time. What about you?
Do you work tomorrow?
Got one. Just pulled up.
You need a ride?
I threw out the stuff that got broken. The floor looks clean.
Fuck you. Fuck you, pal. Listen to you trying to pass the buck again. I'm the source of all your misery. Who closed the store to play hockey? Who closed the store to attend a wake? Who tried to win back an ex- girlfriend without even discussing how he felt with his present one? You wanna blame somebody, blame yourself. "I'm not even supposed to be here today." You sound like an asshole. Whose choice was it to be here today? Nobody twisted your arm. You're here today of your own violation, my friend. But you'd like to believe that the weight of the world rests on your shoulders-that the store would crumble if Dante wasn't here. Well, I got news for you, jerk: This store would survive without you. Without me either. All you do is overcompensate for having what's basically a monkey's job: You push fucking buttons. Any moron can waltz in here and do our jobs, but you're obsessed with making it seem so much more fucking important, so much more epic than it really is. You work in a convenience store, Dante. And badly, I might add. And I work in a shitty video store. Badly, as well. You know, that guy Jay's got it right- he has no delusions about what he does. Us? We like to make ourselves seem so much better than the people that come in here, just looking to pick up a paper or-God forbid- cigarettes. We look down on them, as it we're so advanced. Well, if we're so fucking advanced, then what are we doing working here?
You get my slapped with a fine, you fight with the customers and I have to patch everything up. You get us chased out of a funeral by violating a corpse. To top it all off, you ruin my relationship. What's your encore? Do you anally rape my mother while pouring sugar in my gas tank? You know what the real tragedy is? I'm not even supposed to be here today!
Hermaphrodites! I rented it so we could watch it together!
Unless you're out renting videos at other video stores.
It's not like I'm miles away.
Which means the video store is ostensibly closed.
To talk to you.
You were over half an hour late. Then all you do is come over here.
Like ten after.
What time did you get to work today?
How do you figure?
What don't you do? Randal, sometimes it seems like the only reason you come to work is to make my life miserable.
No, really. What did I do that was so wrong?
Why do I say that? Randal... forget it.
Why do you say that?
Oh please! I'm surprised I didn't kill you.
You still didn't have to choke me.
You were saying how you couldn't initiate change yourself, so I figured I'd help you out.
I thought I was doing you a favor.
Why the fuck did you tell Veronica that I was going to dump her for Caitlin?
You didn't have to choke me.
It's hard to swallow.
The swelling's not so bad. But the FDS stings. How's your neck?
How's your eye?
Point is-I'm not the kind of person that disrupts things in order to shit comfortably.
My mother told me once that when I as three, my potty lid was closed, and instead of lifting it, I chose to shit my pants.
So you'll continue being miserable all the time, just because you don't have the guts to face change?
Jesus H. Christ, I can't!
Who're you kidding? You can so.
I can't, all right! Jesus, would you leave me alone? I can't make changes like that in my life. If I could, I would-but I don't have the ability to risk comfortable situations on the big money and the fabulous prizes.
Make them change.
What do you want me to say? Yes, I suppose some of the things you're saying may be true. But that's the way things are; it's not going to change.
Melodrama coming from you seems about as natural as an oral bowel movement.
Caitlin and I can't be together. It's impossible.
What? The dead guy? She'll get over fucking the dead guy. Shit, my mom's been fucking a dead guy for thirty years; I call him Dad.
You're wrong. Things happened today, okay? Things that probably ruined my chances with Caitlin.
Am I right or what?
...If I wasn't such a fucking coward. It must be so great to be able to simplify everything the way you do.
If you want Caitlin, then face Veronica, tell her, and be with Caitlin. If you want Veronica, be with Veronica. But don't pine for one and fuck the other. Man, if you weren't such a fucking coward...
Leave me alone.
You date Veronica because she's low maintenance and because it's convenient. Meanwhile, all you ever do is talk about Caitlin. You carry a torch for a girl you dated in high school-in high school for God's sake! You're twenty-two!
Leave her out of this.
It's the same thing with Veronica.
Thank you. Why don't you go back to the video store?
I'm satisfied with my situation for now. You don't hear me bitching. You, on the other hand, have been bitching all day.
Oh, like your life's any better?
You're comfortable. This is a life of convenience for you, and any attempt to change it would shatter the pathetic microcosm you've fashioned for yourself.
Leave me alone.
It is. You just up and quit. There are other jobs, and they pay better money. You're bound to be qualified for at least one of them. So what's stopping you?
As if it's that easy.
All right, if you hate this job and the people, and the fact that you have to come in on your day off, then quit.
It's true. You'll sit there and blame life for dealing a cruddy hand, never once accepting the responsibility for the way your situation is.
I'm talking about this thing you have... this inability to improve your situation in life.
What are you talking about?
Yeah, you should shit or get off the pot.
I should shit or get off the pot.
You should shit or get off the pot.
I was born.
That's all bullshit. You know what the real problem here is?
My life is in the shitter right about now, so if you don't mind, I'd like to stew a bit.
I'm stuck in this pit, earning less than slave wages, working on my day off, dealing with every backward fuck on the planet, the goddamn steel shutters are locked all day, I smell like shoe polish, I've got an ex- girlfriend who's catatonic after fucking a dead guy, and my present girlfriend has sucked thirty-six dicks.
Have some chips; you'll feel better.
Why do I have this life?
What? What's with you? You haven't said anything for like twenty minutes. What the hell is your problem?
I think four.
What time did we go to the funeral?
Around three or something.
WOULD YOU SHUT THE FUCK UP? WHO THE FUCK IS IN THE BATHROOM?
She said she did all the work.
Shut the fuck up!
You just fucked a total stranger?
Maybe the Asian design major slipped her some opium?
I love your sexy talk. It's so... kindergarten: Poo-poo; wee-wee.
I told her that. She said she didn't need any. Why don't you join her, man. Make a little bathroom bam-bam.
There's no lights back there.
Bunch of savages in this town. Hey, Caitlin's in the back. You might want to see if she's okay; she's been back there a long time.
Who eats cock?
I'll read the book.
All right, but you're missing out. Chicks with dicks.
I might be leaving early to go out with Caitlin, in which case you'll have to close the store tonight.
You want me to bring the VCR over here so we can watch this?
In my absence, try not to sell cigarettes to any newborns.
You're a snake.
No! Don't bring it up. I don't want to think about that now. Let me enjoy this hour of bliss. I'll think about all of that later. In the meantime, nobody mentions the V word.
Hey, what about Veronica?
This is my way of spitting water at life.
What happened to title dictates behavior?
Watch the store while I go home and change.
I feel so ineffectual. Is there anything I can do for you?
She went home, she's getting ready, and we're going out.
Wow. You've had quite an evening.
She's not going to marry that guy. She went home to tell her mother.
What did she say?
I'm not. She just left.
Now I know you're lying.
No. I'm happy because Caitlin came to see me.
You're happy to get a fine?
Because I'm happy.
Then why aren't you like screaming at me right now?
I swear. I couldn't make this kind of hell up.
Because I'm here.
Then how come you got the fine?
As opposed to the hundreds of other children you let buy cigarettes whenever you work here.
Holy shit. That girl?
Little girl. Maybe five years old?
I don't; you did.
I thought you never sold cigarettes to kids.
I didn't think they even enforced this.
Five hundred dollars.
I got fined for selling cigarettes to a minor.
I like to expand my horizons.
And this is what you rented?
Hermaphroditic porn. Starlets with both organs. You should see the box: Beautiful women with dicks that put mine to shame.
What'd you rent? Best of Both Worlds?
Get to work.
I know I'm your hero.
Please, get the hell out of here.
I like to think I'm a master of my own destiny.
You're a danger to both the dead and the living.
If title dictated my behavior, as a clerk serving the public, I wouldn't be allowed to spit a mouthful of water at that guy. But I did, so my point is that people dictate their own behavior. Hence, even though I'm a clerk in this video store, I choose to go rent videos at Big Choice. Agreed?
And two, to make a point: title does not dictate behavior.
Two reasons: one, I hate when the people can't shut up about the stupid tabloid headlines.
What the fuck did you do that for?
That's stretching it. You're not being asked to slay children or anything.
The reasons you won't let me borrow your car is because I have a title and a job description, and I'm supposed to follow it, right?
So your argument is that title dictates behavior?
It's going to have to do for now, considering that it's my car that's up for request. Can I help you?
You know what? I don't think I care for your rationale.
There's a difference. Those were obligations. Obligations that could not have been met at any later date. Now renting videos-that's just gratuitous, not to mention illogical, considering you work in a video store.
I see. So playing hockey and attending wakes-these practices are standard operating procedure.
We are employees of Quick Stop Convenience and RST video, respectively. As such, we have certain responsibilities which-though it may seem cruel and unusual-does include manning our posts until closing.
If you must.
May I be blunt with you?
Let me borrow your car.
Can you imagine being halfway decent to the customers at least some of the time?
You work in a video store!
What's that for?
You want to rent a movie.
I want to rent a movie.
Why should I loan you my car?
Fine. Just lend me your car.
I don't want to talk to you.
Let me borrow your car.
Just... go! Go open the video store.
So they'll put her back in! It's not like it's gonna matter if she breaks something!
Her fucking body fell out!
So the casket fell over! Big deal!
Does anyone ever knock over a casket on purpose?
I was just leaning on it! It was an accident!
You knocked the fucking casket over, for Chrissakes!
I'm telling you, it wasn't my fault!
I can't fucking believe you!!
Nobody's there. It's four o'clock on a Saturday. How many people ever come to the store at four on a Saturday?
I can't help it. At least when we were playing hockey outside, I could see if anyone wanted to go in.
Listen to you.
I know it was a bad idea to close the store.
I never tried it.
Yeah. Like you said, you know. I guess everyone tries it, sooner of later.
What, your dick?
I could never reach.
Yeah, but at what a price.
He made it, hunhh?
Balls resting on his lips.
His dick was in his mouth?
My cousin? My aunt found him. On his bed, doubled over himself with his legs on top. Dick in his mouth. My aunt freaked out. It was a mess.
Who found him?
No, because you won't admit to it. As if a guy's a fucking pervert because he tries to go down on himself. You're as curious as the rest of us, pal. You've tried it.
Because I never tried to suck my own dick?
Yeah sure. You're so repressed.
Come on. Haven't you ever tried to suck your own dick?
Oh, my god.
Shut the hell up.
He broke his neck trying to suck his own dick.
Broke his neck.
How'd he die?
That's nothing compared to how my cousin Walter died.
An embarrassing way to die.
An embolism in a pool.
Twenty-two; same as us.
She was pretty young, hunhh?
Thanks for putting me in a tough spot. You're a good friend.
You were saying?
Exactly, which means I can't close it for another hour so we can both go to a wake.
You just closed the store to play hockey on the roof!
I can't close the store.
I'm going with you.
I'm not taking you to this funeral.
She meant nothing to you either until I told you she died.
She meant nothing to you!
If you go, I go.
Don't be an asshole. Somebody has to stay with the store.
But I love gatherings. Isn't it ironic?
You hate people.
I'm not missing what's probably going to be the social event of the season.
Stop it. This is beneath even you.
True, but do you know how many people are going to be there? All of our old classmates, to say the least.
You hardly knew her!
Wait, wait, wait. Has it occurred to you that I might bereaved as well?
You've gotta watch the store. I have to go to this.
One night only. She's buried in the morning.
Shit. What about tomorrow?
Paulsen's Funeral Parlor. The next show is at four.
No, you're not.
I'm gonna go to her wake.
You've had sex with a dead person.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but wasn't she one of the illustrious twelve?
I haven't seen her in almost two years.
She was swimming at the YMCA pool when it happened. Died mid-backstroke.
Embolism in her brain. Yesterday.
Sanford's brother dates her cousin. He found out this morning.
Oh, my god.
No, I'm serious.
Julie Dwyer died.
I still can't believe Caitlin's getting married.
You know what Sanford told me?
"It's not like we're gonna sell out."
After an exhausting game like that I can believe it.
Exactly. They drank it all.
What happened to all the Gatorade?
Bitch, bitch, bitch. You want something to drink?
Randal, twelve minutes is not a game! Jesus, it's barely a warm-up!
Hockey's hockey. At least we got to play.
One ball!! They come all the way here... I close the damn store... for one ball!
Then where're we gonna play?
We're not playing in the street.
Look who you're asking here. How're we gonna block off the street?
I don't know. You going to lock the video store?
Are you gonna lock the store?
Can we not talk about this?
At least let me maintain some semblance of managerial control here.
He's blunt, but he's got a point.
I just want to play hockey like I was scheduled to.
No argument here. Insubordination rules.
I told him I had a game today. It's his own fault.
I've gotta tell you, my friend: this is one of the ballsiest moves I've ever been privy to. I never would have thought you capable of such blatant disregard of store policy.
Pull my laces tighter.
You've got a customer.
At least we're stuck here together.
I can't believe I'm going to miss the game!
See? There you go again.
Don't yell at me, pal.
Would you shut the hell up with that shit? It's not helping.
Because you buckled.
I'm going to miss the game.
The fact that I'm right about your buckling?
You know what pisses me off the most?
Yes, you do. You always back down. You assume blame that isn't yours, you come in when called as opposed to enjoying your day off, you buckle like a belt.
I don't back down.
That seems to be the leitmotif in your life; ever backing down.
I heard you apologize. Why? You have every right in the world to be mad.
Why'd you apologize?
So, what-you're stuck here all day?
Not a fucking word! Slippery shit!
He didn't mention it when he called you this morning?
Can you believe this?!
The best Burtless movie ever made.
Smokey Three: thumbs up, am I right?
Can you come next door? I gotta make a phone call.
Shut up! Yes, I've calmed down, I'm still not happy about it, but I've been able to deal.
Jesus, you got a one-track mind. It's always Caitlin, Caitlin, Caitlin...
Because my ex-girlfriend is getting married.
All of them.
You know who I can do without? I could do without the people in the video store.
The women that go through every gallon of milk looking for a later date. As if somewhere-beyond all the other gallons-is a container of milk that won't go bad for like a decade.
Let's hear it.
It's not really anyone per se, it's more of separate groupings.
How can you lie like that? Why don't you vent? Vent your frustration. Come on, who pisses you off?
Liar! Tell me there aren't customers that annoy the piss out of you on a daily basis.
What for? They don't bother me if I don't bother them.
You gotta loosen up, my friend. You'd feel a hell of a lot better if you'd rip into the occasional customer.
I'm gonna hear it tomorrow.
Who cares? That lady's an asshole. Everybody that comes in here is way too uptight. This job would be great if it wasn't for the fucking customers.
Why do you do things like that? You know she's going to come back and tell the boss.
The jizz-mopper's job is to clean up the booths afterward, because practically everybody shoots a load against the window, and I don't know if you know or not, but cum leaves streaks if you don't clean it right away.
Can we talk about this later?
Think of the weirdest, craziest shit you'd like to see chicks do. These chicks do it all. They insert things into any opening in their body... any opening. He's led a very sheltered life.
What kind of show?
Oh, it's great. You step into this little booth and there's this window between you and this naked woman, and she puts on this little show for like ten bucks.
I guess not.
Nudie booth. You've never been in a nudie booth?
He's the guy in those nudie-booth joints who cleans up after each guy that jerks off.
What's a jizz-mopper?
You know how much money the average jizz-mopper make per hour?
Did you ever notice all the prices end in nine? Damn, that's eerie.
I'll give him five more minutes then I'm calling the cops. I don't need this, man. I'm not even supposed to be here today.
It's not like you laid the eggs yourself.
He said it was important to have standards. He said nobody has pride anymore.
What did he say?
I told him that and he yelled at me.
Why doesn't he just mix and match?
Obviously not. Look at all the cartons that didn't make the grade.
The quest isn't going well?
Each egg has to be perfect.
He said he has to find a perfect dozen.
What's he looking for?
This guy is going through all of the eggs. Look.
She's in here?
You'll never believe what this unruly customer just said...
All those innocent contractors hired to do a job were killed- casualties of a war they had nothing to do with. All right, look-you're a roofer, and some juicy government contract comes your way; you got the wife and kids and the two-story in suburbia-this is a government contract, which means all sorts of benefits. All of a sudden these left-wing militants blast you with lasers and wipe out everyone within a three-mile radius. You didn't ask for that. You have no personal politics. You're just trying to scrape out a living.
All right, so even if independent contractors are working on the Death Star, why are you uneasy with its destruction?
Exactly. In order to get it built quickly and quietly they'd hire anybody who could do the job. Do you think the average storm trooper knows how to install a toilet main? All they know is killing and white uniforms.
Not just Imperials, is what you're getting at.
A construction job of that magnitude would require a helluva lot more manpower than the Imperial army had to offer. I'll bet there were independent contractors working on that thing: plumbers, aluminum siders, roofers.
The second time around, it wasn't even finished yet. They were still under construction.
And the second time around...?
So when they blew it up, no prob. Evil is punished.
Well, the thing is, the first Death Star was manned by the Imperial army- storm troopers, dignitaries-the only people onboard were Imperials.
And you figured it out?
Something just never sat right with me the second time they destroyed it. I could never put my finger on it-something just wasn't right.
Compliments of Lando Calrissian.
And the second one was still being built when they blew it up.
Luke blew it up. Give credit where it's due.
Now the first one they built was completed and fully operational before the Rebels destroyed it.
So they build another Death Star, right?
You know what else I noticed in Jedi?
I think they were Catholics.
The only problem is that at no point in the series did I ever hear Leia or any of the rebels declare a particular religious belief.
More or less.
Hence, the Empire was a fascist theocracy, and the rebel forces were therefore battling religious persecution.
It would stand to reason, yes.
Then wouldn't that logically mean that it's a theocracy? If the head of the Empire is a priest of some sort, then it stands to reason that the government is therefore one based on religion.
Now, he's in charge of the Empire. The Imperial government is under his control. And the entire galaxy is under Imperial rule.
Well, he's like the pope for the dark side of the Force. He's a holy man; a shaman, kind of, albeit an evil one.
How do you mean?
Right, the Emperor. Now the Emperor is kind of a spiritual figure, yes?
All right, Vader's boss...
There was something else going on in Jedi. I never noticed it until today.
Empire had the better ending: Luke gets his hand cut off, and finds out Vader's his father; Han gets frozen and taken away by Boba Fett. It ends on such a down note. And that's life-a series of down endings. All Jedi had was a bunch of Muppets.
Which did you like better: Jedi or The Empire Strikes Back.
Didn't you hear me? Caitlin really is getting married.
Return of the Jedi.
Me pulling a can off some moron's fist.
You know what I just watched?
Do you know that article is accurate? Caitlin's really getting married!
You, Veronica, Caitlin... ...and Caitlin's fianc.
Then I think all four of you had better sit down and talk it over.
I think it's safe to say yes.
Caitlin's on the same wave-length?
I think the arguments Veronica and I are having are some kind of manifestation of a subconscious desire to break away from her so that I can pursue the possibility of a more meaningful relationship with Caitlin.
What about Veronica?
...and she's looking to me for support. And I think that this is leading our relationship to a new level.
No, no, I'm listening. She's leaving college, and...?
I'm talking to myself here.
Oh shit, I've got to place an order.
They are. When she calls me now, she's a different person-she's frightened and vulnerable. She's about to finish college and enter the real world. That's got to be scary for anyone.
You think things would be any different now?
I'm serious. Aside from the cheating, we were a great couple. That's what high school's all about-algebra, bad lunch, and infidelity.
Because there was a lot of good in our relationship.
In light of this lurid tale, I don't see how you could even romanticize your relationship with Caitlin-she broke your heart and inadvertently drove men to deviant lifestyles.
It takes different strokes to move the world.
The two moved to Idaho together after graduation. They raise sheep.
Chess team Allan Harris?!
Interesting postscript to that story: Do you know who wound up going with Brad Michaelson in the other dark bedroom?
That girl was vile to you.
Great story, isn't it?
Oh, my God.
She was supposed to meet Brad Michaelson in a bedroom. She picked the wrong one. She had no idea I was even at the party.
What do you mean?
I hit the lights and she freaks. Turns out she thought I was Brad Michaelson.
That's not cheating. People say crazy shit during sex. One time, I called this girl "Mom."
She called me Brad.
She called you Brad?
In the middle of it, she calls me Brad.
Party at John K's-senior year. I get blitzed and pass out in his bedroom. Caitlin comes in and dives all over me.
Eight and a half?
Eight and a half.
Chick only made you nuts. She cheated on you how many times?
Chick's nuts about you. How long did you date Caitlin?
I'm going to offer you some advice, my friend: let the past be the past. Forget Caitlin Bree. You've been with Veronica for how long now?
I'll bet the most frequent topic of arguments is Caitlin Bree.
I guess it's not really fighting. She just wants me to leave here, go back to school, get some direction.
What do you two fight about?
One fight a day with Veronica is about all I can stomach, thanks.
Did you tell Veronica?
She called me.
You called Caitlin again?
You don't want to know.
I wanted to use your car.
Who was on your phone this morning at about two-thirty? I was trying to call for a half an hour.
Want something to drink? I'm buying.
I can't stand a voyeur. I'll be back.
Don't screw with it. It makes us look suspicious.
I'm a firm believer in the philosophy of a ruling class, especially since I rule. Is the Pelican flying?
Shocking abuse of authority.
Some guy just came in refusing to pay late fees. He said the store was closed for two hours yesterday. I tore up his membership.
Go open the sore.
What smells like shoe polish?
He assured me that he'd be here by twelve.
What time do you have to stay till?
Shit, if I'd known you were working, I would've come even later.
That's what I said.
Bunch of savages in this town.
Someone jammed gum in the locks.
Why are the shutters closed?
The boss called. Arthur fell ill.
What the hell are you doing here? I thought you were playing hockey at one.
Jesus Christ, what next?
I'm surprised you never found out about it, Dante. Everybody in school knew-even in my class.
THE GLADES MOTEL?
I still remember Caitlin telling us about that time you two went to that motel-the one with the mirrors and the hot tub in the room.
Caitlin used to talk about him all the time.
You know him?
Yep. I remember you got caught in my parents' room with Caitlin once.
You're Alyssa's sister? Heather?
I'm her sister.
Caitlin Bree. Yeah?
You remember Alyssa Jones? She hung out with...
Do I know you?
I don't have love handles.
He's got those love handles.
I know I can bench more than that!
I'd say about sixty, seventy-tops.
Just the paper.
Are you open?
Forget it. I don't want to deal with a guy that sells cigarettes to a five-year-old. Can I offer you a ride somewhere?
But I didn't sell cigarettes to any kids! Hey!
Hey man, that was a long time ago. Don't let it get to you.
What? When? When did all this shit happen?
I... I don't believe this...
All the time. That girl was like a rabbit.
Wait a second! You used to sleep with Caitlin Bree? While I was dating her?
While you two were dating in high school. We're talking four, five years ago, back when I drove a Trans- Am.
No, she's getting married.
Oh man! Hey, you still going out with her?
How do you know that?
And your name is Dante Hicks? You went to high school with her? You played hockey?
Pretty girl, about this girl's height- dark hair-gorgeous body?
Did you say Caitlin Bree?
See? You're ashamed. You know you're out of shape. Take my card. I can help you tone that body up in no time. Get you on an aerobics and free-weights program.
Oh for God's sake!
I don't know.
How much can you bench?
I am not.
No fat, but no tone either. You don't get enough exercise.
What are you talking about? There's no fat on this body.
Yes, they are. You're out of shape.
They are not.
Oh, I do. You made the same noise when you reached across the counter for my cash. Your muscles are thin and sadly underutilized.
I don't think so.
I don't think so. That was a grunt; a deep inhalation of oxygen to aid in the stretching of muscles. I'm a trainer. I know what that sound signifies: you're out of shape.
I didn't strain. I sighed.
I heard you strain when you put the milk in the bag. That milk only weighs about seven pounds.
Sounds to me like somebody needs to hit the gym.
I don't know. She was senile and shit. Used to piss herself all the time. C'mon Silent Bob.
I've had girlfriends, but all they wanted from me was weed and shit. Shit, my grandma used to say, "Which is better: a good plate with nothing on it..." No, wait. I fucked up. She said "What's a good-looking plate with nothing on it?"
She's my girlfriend.
Damn. She sure goes out of her way.
I jacked the car up. All she did was loosen the nuts and put the tire on.
I don't know dude. That Caitlin chick's nice. But I see that Veronica girl doing shit for you all the time. She brings you food, she rubs your back... Didn't I see her change your tire one day?
And what-you were gonna dump her to date that Caitlin chick?
Is she that girl who's down here all the time? She came here today carrying a plate of food.
Don't you already have a girlfriend?
We were going to start again, I think.
You used to go out with her?
Knock it off. That used to be my girlfriend.
Probably saw that Caitlin chick. I know I felt like beatin' it when I saw her. Come here, bitch! You like this? Is this what you want? Hunhh?
I don't know. I wasn't watching.
That's fucked up. Yo, I heard he was jerkin' off.
He died in the bathroom.
Hey, man, what happened with that old guy?
I can't believe you just rolled a joint in here.
So why do you sell it for so much more? I'll tell you why-because people come here and they're like "A dollar eighty for soda? I should get it at Food City. But I don't feel like driving there. I'll just buy it here so I don't have to drive up there." That's exploiting a weakness, too, isn't it?
At Food City it's ninety-nine cents, plus tax.
A dollar sixty-nine, plus tax.
All right. How much is Pepsi here?
You sell to people that can't stay away from an addiction.
What's that mean?
The difference is you exploit a weakness.
And these aren't my drugs-I just sell them.
It's not my store.
Relax brother. What I mean is that you sell the stuff in this store at the highest prices around. A dollar seventy-nine for wraps-what's that shit?
How do you figure... HEY! You can't roll a joint in here!
I work, just like you. You're more of a crook than I am, dude.
Listen to you. Oh shit. "Oh, I don't hang out with drug dealers."
With you? I don't think so.
Wanna come to this party tonight? There's gonna be some pussy there, man!
I should start.
We get off about the same time every night. We should hang out. You get high?
A half hour.
Pay the good man. Don't you close soon?
Hell yes, whatever that means. Now I'm gonna head over to Atlantic, drink some beers, get ripped, and- please God-get laid. E-Z Wider, one-and-a-halfs.
Done poisoning the youth for the day?
Noinch, noinch, noinch-smoking weed, smoking weed! Doing coke! Drinking beers! A pack of wraps, my good man. It's time to kick back, drink some beers, and smoke some weed!
I'm not dealing.
How many times I gotta tell you not to deal outside the store.
Yeah, you cock-smoking clerk.
Go open the video store.
'Bout the biggest pair you ever seen! NYNNE!!
Are there any balls down there?!
Don't hurt yourself. I'm going to Big Choice Video instead.
If you'll just tell me the title of your rental choice, I'll have him hold it for you.
Such a wiseass. But go ahead. Crack wise. That's why you're jockeying a register in some fucking local convenience store instead of doing an honest day's work. I got no more time to bullshit around waiting for that sonofabitch. You make sure this gets back. The number's eight-twelve-Wynarski. And I wanted to get a damn movie, too.
Actually, that's his night job.
What the hell is that? Resting his eyes! It's not like he's some goddamned air traffic controller!
No; he was probably just resting his eyes.
You calling me a liar?
I'm sure he wasn't sleeping.
It's not like it's a demanding job. I'd like to get paid to sit on my ass and watch TV. The other day I walked in there and that sonofabitch was sleeping.
Uh, can I have the other one. The one below this one. They show more in that one.
Here. Now leave me alone.
Yeah. I like the cartoons. They make me laugh. They draw the biggest titties.
The porno mags?
No, I mean the ones there. Behind the counter.
I said go ahead.
Can I trouble you for one of those magazines?
You know, you probably could've been home, already, in the time it's taken you to get in there.
Thanks, young man. You've got a heart of gold.
Jesus... go ahead.
Say, young fella, you know I hate to bother you again, but can I take a paper or something back there... to read? It usually takes me a while, and I like to read while it's going on.
Thanks son, you're a lifesaver.
Yeah, okay. Go ahead.
Aw, c'mon boy. What's the difference? You said yourself the stuff that's there now is rough.
Rough, eh? Oh, that stuff rips hell out of my hemorrhoids. Say, would you mind if I took a roll of the soft stuff back there. I see you sell the soft stuff.
Actually, it is kind of rough.
I'm not asking about the color. I mean is it rough or cottony?
The white kind.
Thanks son. Say-what kind of toilet paper you got back there?
Uh... sure. Go ahead. It's back through the cooler.
I understand, but can I use it. I'm not that young anymore, so I'm kind of... you know... incontinent.
Um... yeah, but it's for employees only.
Well, that depends. Do you have a bathroom?
Oh... Can I help you?
No, he got hit by a bus.
And he got cancer by chewing fluorescent bulb glass...?
I had a friend that used to chew glass for a living. In the circus.
So I'm told.
You know the insides of those are filled with stuff that gives you cancer.
Veronica, I love you...
And having him tell me... that was just the weakest move ever. You're spineless.
Of course not; not now! You're caught, and now you're trying to snake out of doing what you wanted to do. Well, I won't let you. I want you to follow through on this, just so you can find out what a fucking idiot you are. And when she dumps you again- and she will, Dante, I promise you that-when she dumps you again, I want to laugh at you, right in your face, just so you realize that that was what you gave up our relationship for! I'm just glad Randal had the balls to tell me, since you couldn't.
I don't want to go back with her...
You don't know what you want, but I'm not going to sit here anymore holding your hand until you figure it out! I've encouraged you to get out of this fucking dump and go back to school, to take charge of your life and find direction. I even transferred so maybe you would be more inclined to go back to college if I was with you. Everyone said it was a stupid move, but I didn't care because I loved you and wanted to see you pull yourself out of this senseless funk you've been in since that whore dumped you, oh so many years ago. And now you want to go back to her so she can fuck you over some more?
I don't want Caitlin...
You're damn right it's not like that! Because I won't let it be like that! You want your slut? Fine! The slut is yours!
Veronica... I... it's not like that anymore... I mean, it was never really like that...
Explain what? How you were waiting until the time was right, and then you were going to dump me for her?
Would you let me explain...
I'm not the one trying to patch things up with my ex, sneaking around behind your back! And if you think that thirty-seven dicks are a lot, then just wait, mister: I'm going to put the hookers in Times Square to shame with all the guys I go down on now!
And then you pull that shit this morning, freaking out because I've gone down on a couple guys!
It was only a few times...
You've been talking to her on the phone for weeks!
What're you talking about?
If you didn't want to go out with me anymore, why didn't you just say it? Instead, you pussyfoot around and see that slut behind my back!
What the fuck did you do that for?
Good. I'll see you when you close, then. Enjoy the lasagne.
Eight. But I have a sorority meeting till nine, so I'll be back before you close. Can we go out and get some coffee?
What time do you get finished?
Bummer, Well, I've gotta head back for the one-thirty class.
I called a locksmith and he said the earliest he could get here it tomorrow.
You couldn't get these shutters open?
Thank you for the lasagne.
Thank you for being rational.
...it isn't there. Yes.
The ostrich syndrome: if you don't see it...
And he said most of them are college guys, I've never met or seen.
And that made you feel better?
At least he wasn't thirty-six.
What did he say?
I had to tell someone. He put it into perspective.
You had to tell him.
I'm glad you've calmed down a bit. Hi, Randal.
Really? You're the best.
Peanut butter and jelly with the crusts cut off. What do you think it is? It's lasagne.
What is it?
Lit 101 got canceled, so I stopped home and brought you some lunch.
He still hasn't shown up. Why aren't you in class?
Thirty-seven. I just can't...
I'm going to school. Maybe later you'll be a bit more rational.
Every time I kiss you now I'm going to taste thirty-six other guys.
I love you. Don't feel sick.
I feel sick.
Because going down it's a big deal! I used to like a guy, we'd make out, and sooner or later I'd go down on him. But I only had sex with the guys I loved.
Well... why did you have to suck their dicks? Why didn't you just sleep with them, like any decent person?!
...And one of those guys was you! The last one, I might add, which-if you're too stupid to comprehend- means that I've been faithful to you since we met! All the other guys I went with before I met you, so, if you want to have a complex about it, go ahead! But don't look at me like I'm the town whore, because you were plenty busy yourself, before you met me!
Yeah, I went down on a few guys...
No, but you sucked enough dick!
Hey listen, jerk! Until today you never even knew how many guys I'd slept with, because you never even asked. And then you act all nonchalant about fucking twelve different girls. Well, I never had sex with twelve different guys!
Hey! Where are you going?!
Thirty-seven?! My girlfriend sucked thirty-seven dicks!
I'm going to class.
What the hell is that anyway, "something like thirty-six?" Does that include me?
Lower your voice!
WHAT? SOMETHING LIKE THIRTY-SIX?
Something like thirty-six.
This is different. This is important. How many?!
All right! Shut up a second and I'll tell you! Jesus! I didn't freak like this when you told me how many girls you fucked.
Let it go...
How many dicks have you sucked?!
Please calm down.
I did understand! I understand that you slept with three different guys, and that's all you said.
I'm sorry, Dante. I thought you understood.
Oh my God-I feel so nauseous...
Because I did only sleep with three guys! That doesn't mean I didn't just go with people.
Oh my God! Why did you tell me you only slept with three guys?
We went out a few times. We didn't have sex, but we fooled around.
You sucked his dick!
That's because I never had sex with him!
But... but you said you only had sex with three guys! You never mentioned him!
Yeah. How do you think I know he liked...
You sucked that guy's dick?
Sylvan? No; I snowballed him.
Like you said-she snowballed him.
Why do you say that?
Sylvan can be talked into anything.
He gets off on it.
He requested this?
After he gets a blow job, he likes to have the cum spit back into his mouth while kissing. It's called snowballing.
What do you mean?
Sylvan made it up. It's a blow job thing.
Why do you call him that?
Unlike you, I have a class in forty- five minutes.
Shit! Why are we getting up?
Jesus, would you stop? You make my head hurt when you talk about this.
It's important to me, Dante. You have so much potential that just goes to waste in this pit. I wish you'd go back to school.
Can't we ever have a discussion without that coming up?
To school. There's a seminar about getting back into a scholastic program after a lapse in enrollment.
I want you to come with me on Monday.
All right. Name it.
After dropping a bombshell like that, you owe me. Big.
They put up the least amount of struggle.
Vegetable meaning paraplegic.
Animal, vegetable, or mineral.
I am. And that's why you should feel like a pig. You men make me sick. You'll sleep with anything that says yes.
Wow. That's great. That's something to be proud of.
John Franson and Rob Stanslyk.
No; who were the three, besides me?
I'm not the pig you are.
You've only had sex with three different people?
Three including you.
Do I get to hit you after you tell me?
Do you know how many different men I've had sex with?
Why'd you hit me?
You're a pig.
What the hell was that for?
Including you; yes.
You've slept with twelve different girls?
It better be up to and including me.
We might have; I don't remember. How many?
How many different girls? Didn't we already have this discussion once?
How many girls have you slept with?
How many what?
These are my opinions based on my experiences with the few women who were good enough to sleep with me.
You were making a generalization about "broads!"
It wasn't directed at you. I was making a broad generalization.
I'm astonished to hear you trivialize my role in our sex life.
I touched a nerve.
I'm insulted. Believe me, Don Juan, it takes more than that to get a guy off. Just "being there"-as you put it-is not enough.
And I actually date you?
A girl makes a guy cum, it's standard. A guy makes a girl cum, it's talent.
Oh, you think so?
Now, making a woman cum... therein lies a challenge.
Making a male climax is not all that challenging: insert somewhere close and preferably moist; thrust; repeat.
Women? Women, as lovers, are all basically the same: they just have to be there.
You show some bedroom proficiency, and you think you're gods. What about what we do for you?
How do you figure?
Typically male point of view.
Yeah, right. You can't get enough of me.
I was kidding.
Ooh! Can we?!
Why? You wanna have sex or something?
Do you think anyone can see us down here?
I had to use shoe polish to make that sign. The smell won't come off.
Honesty through paranoia. Why do you smell like shoe polish?
Theoretically, people see money on the counter and nobody around, they think they're being watched.
How do you know they're taking the right amount of change? Or even paying for what they take?
Why do you say that?
Like three dollars in mixed change and a couple of singles. People only get the paper of coffee this time of morning.
How much money did you leave up there?
Oh, be real! Would you... Would you please hug me? I just went through a very traumatic experience and I haven't been having the best day so far. Now come on.
She called you, didn't she?
What? What is that?
Who's defensive? Just... Would you just hug me?! All right? Your boyfriend was accosted by an angry mob, and he needs to be hugged.
Who's fighting? Why are you so defensive?
Nothing! Jesus! I gotta fight with you now?
What were you doing?
What were you doing up so late?
I don't know-like two-thirty, three.
You look bushed. What time did you get to bed?
Bunch of savages in this town.
Somebody jammed the locks with gum.
Why don't you open the shutters and get some sunlight in here?
I'm only here until twelve, then I'm gone. The boss is coming in.
Why did you agree to come in then?
Yes! And I'm going to play like shit because I didn't get a good night's sleep!
Don't you have a hockey game at two?
The guy got sick and couldn't come in.
I know. I stopped by your house and your mom said you left at like six or something.
I'm not even supposed to be here today!
All I'm saying is that if you're unhappy you should leave.
Please, Veronica. Last thing I need is a lecture at this point.
Then quit. You should be going to school anyway...
I hate this fucking place.
At least they weren't lit.
Too hard?! I don't have enough indignities in my life-people start throwing cigarettes at me!
All right, stupid question. But don't you think you're taking this a bit too hard?
A word of advice: Sometimes it's best to let those hard to reach chips go.
It stings a little.
I'll throw this out. Precautionary measure.
Thanks. I thought I was gonna have to go to the hospital.
I think it's coming now...
They oughta put some kind of warning on these cans, like they do with cigarettes.
Maybe we should soap your hand or something.
Usually I just turn the can upside down.
You hold the counter and I'll pull.
The due date is on the bottom. This summons cannot be contested in any court of law. Failure to remit before the due date will result in a charge of criminal negligence, and a warrant will be issued for your arrest. Have a nice day.
I didn't sell cigarettes to any kids! I swear!
But I didn't sell cigarettes to any kid!
An angry mother called the state division of taxation and complained that the man working at Quick Stop Convenience sold her five-year-old daughter cigarettes today at around four o'clock. Division of taxation calls the State Board of Health, and they send me down here to issue a fine. You say you were working all day, hence the fine is yours. It's doubled due to the incredibly young age of the child.
Yeah, but I didn't sell cigarettes to any kids!
You said you were here all day?
I didn't do that!
According to the NJAC-the New Jersey Administrative Code, section eighteen, five, slash twelve point five-a fine of no less than two hundred and fifty dollars is to be leveled against any person reported selling cigarettes to a minor.
What are you talking about?
A fine, for five hundred dollars.
Here you go.
Dante Hicks. Why? What is this about?
Can I have your name please?
I'm not out of shape!
I've been here since six o'clock this morning. Why?
Were you working here at about four o'clock?
Excuse me, but have you been here all day?
Yes. I'm not out of shape.
Wait, there's more. Olaf: sing...
Did he say "making fuck?"
You gotta hear him sing. Olaf, "Berserker!"
That doesn't sound metal.
I don't know, man. He's a fucking character.
What did he say?
Swear. Olaf, metal!
He knows some English, but he can't not speak it good like we do.
He only speaks Russian?
I swear to God. Silent Bob, am I lying?
Check this out, he's from Russia.
He's your cousin?
Nothing. Just hanging out with Silent Bob and his cousin.
Scumbag. What are you doing?
Oh shit, look who it is. The human vacuum.
English. Come on, "Berserker!" Girls think sexy.
Does he sing in English or Russian?
Come on, man, "Berserker!"
He's got his own band in Moscow. It's called "Fuck Your Yankee Blue Jeans" or something like that.
He really wants to play metal?
He's moving to the big city next week. He wants to be a metal singer.
Is he staying here?
I don't fucking know. What am I, his biographer? Olaf, what part of Russia are you from?
What part of Russia?
I like the way you think.
Sure. How about the beach?
That's sick, Dante.
To a five-year-old kid? What a scumbag!
She said one time you set up a tent on the beach and you guys did it in the middle of this big rainstorm.
Holy shit! She told you about that! Buddy of mine worked there. Said he watched the whole thing. They used to film people at that hotel; nobody knew about it.
Oh yeah. You were the built older guy with the black Trans and the big...
Oh my God! You're Rick Derris?
Shit! Don't take this the wrong way, but I used to fuck her.
To an Asian design major.
Because he's out of shape.
You're Dante Hicks? Oh my God! I didn't even recognize you!
Oh, I know. If I had to work here all day, I'd be bloated and out of shape, too.
It's probably from being around all this food every day.
Now feel his. Roll up your sleeve, chief.
That's tight. Solid.
I do about three-fifty, four.
My ex-boyfriend was about his height, but he was much bulkier. He could bench two-fifty, three hundred easy.
I think the lady called it.
I don't know. I can't really tell from here.
Let me ask you a question: Do you think this guy's out of shape?
You'll be missed.
Well this is the last time I ever rent here...
I hope it feels so good to be right. There is nothing more exhilarating than pointing out the shortcomings of others, is there?
You hope what feels good?
I hope it feels good.
I only pointed out that you weren't paying any attention to what I was saying.
Your ruse. Your cunning attempt to trick me.
I beg your pardon!
I don't appreciate your ruse, ma'am.
I don't think your manager would appreciate...
No, I wasn't.
I just held up the same two movies. You're not even paying attention.
Well, how about these two movies?
I find it's best to stay out of other people's affairs.
You've never heard anybody say anything about either movie?
I'll see you there.
Yo. I'll see you at that party. I'll see you there?
The only place I don't bring my drugs is church. And that ain't till Sunday morning.
Yo, don't sell all that. 'Cause I'm gonna get the cash and buy it from you at John K's. You're gonna bring it, right?
My man is deaf. I'M GOING TO JOHN K'S PARTY! Neh.
You're gonna be at John K's party?
Till ten. Then I'm going to John K's party.
How long you gonna be here?
For this kind of hash, you need that kind of cash.
Yo, I don't have that kind of cash.
That's the price, my brother.
I'm going to have a word with that asshole.
Um, do you think you can give me a lift home tonight?
After all that I've done for that fuck! And he wants to be with that slut? Fine! He can have his slut!
He didn't ask me to...
No, I'm more furious. I'm pissed off. I feel like he's been killing time while he tries to grow the balls to tell me how he really feels, and then he can't even do it! He has his friend do it for him!
I'm not sad.
Don't hold it against him. He just never got Caitlin out of his system. It's not your fault. It's Dante. I don't know thing one about chicks. Do you want to cry or something? I can leave.
I... I don't know what to say.
Pretty much. All except the latent homosexuality part-that's just my theory.
And... he told you all of this?
All right, asshole, you're on.
I'll bet you twenty bucks you don't get to rent that tape.
Like hell you are!
Ain't gonna happen, my friend. I'm getting that tape.
Says me. I've been here for half an hour. I'd call that first dibs.
I have first dibs.
You came for that too? That's the movie I came for.
I would've went to Big Choice, but the tape I want is right there on the wall.
Man! I hate it when I can't rent videos!
I know. I've been here since eleven.
You're kidding. It's almost eleven- thirty!
The guy ain't here yet.
Bye That was Snowball.
I will. Take it easy.
That's cool. Well-you two lovebirds take it easy, all right?
I just talked to her on Monday. We still hang out on weekends.
Do you still talk to Sylvan?
No, I transferred into Monmouth this year. I was tired of missing him.
No, I'm just visiting my man. Dante, this is Willam Black. This is Dante Hicks, my boyfriend.
Ronnie! How are you? You work here now?
Exactly, cheesehead, exactly.
That woulda been cool.
Next time you're like watching MTV, y' know, like flip it to the weather channel for a split second and check it out. I mean, hey, we could be home watching some righteous pornos.
"It's a perfect day for a monster jump." Hey man, can you like do me a favor?
No way, death-breath, that was too intense for thunder. C'mon let's rock an' roll.
Did you catch that thunder?
C'mon, man--it's perfect weather for a monster, full-fledged gutrush!
Hey, Gabe, we're flyin' off the Tower today. C'mon with us.
Man, I hate work even when somebody else does it!
Work! Don't say that word, man.
How yo doin', Gabe!
Gabe! Hey, man! Gabe! It's Gabe!
Cursin'. That's a penalty kick for unsportsmanlike conduct, mate.
Did I hear somethin' break? Outside left!
Hey, let's get something straight. If I'm gonna die, I'm gonna die, but you're always gonna be the asshole, so just shoot, alright.
Ready to die quiet-like, asshole.
More bang for the buck.
Nothing, just tourist souvenirs.
Answer the man.
Where's the radio?
Jessie, Hal, come in...please report. Over.
Rooster! Forget the hen stuff. Be safe, honey. Over.
If you can't make it back, I'll hold up at the Douglas Shaft. Stop worryin'. You sound like a mother hen.
Jessie, girl this is insane. Weather stat called in wind gusts up to 50 knots for tonight.
Jessie, Jessie, copy?
I admit, I can be bought.
And it's such a handsome head. Please Frank, and I swear I'll buy one of your paintings.
Hal will have my head for this.
If I don't meet up with them, you can come and pick me up by nightfall.
I don't know.
He said the Tower, but he's on Comb Bluff? Frank, fly me to the west valley, the winds are never too bad there and it's only a half hour climb to the Douglas Shaft.
They're about two hundred yards from the top of the tower, right where that ledge comes out, Gabe.
Hal's signalling he's OK.
Y'know, Jessie, doesn't Frank look like a normal guy--but he's not, are you Frank?
So...what are you, blind, son? This is a banana eating a monkey, nature in reverse.
What usually eats a banana?
So, what do you see?
Hey, Jessie, you're just in time for another masterpiece.
WHEN SHE'S SAFE!
You do, and the spring thaw is going to be worth a lot of cash!
Throw it up or I'll kill her.
You're getting warmer!
Where are you, Walker?
Love's a killer, isn't it?
Copy. Jessie, go to the top of Bitker ladder.
I want the money--meet me at the highest point from where you are. Don't do it and we're going to see if your angel here can fly. Copy?
Jessie! Are you alright?
Qualen, glad you stuck around. There should be a few hundred cops looking to meet you.
I need my bolt gun and an ice axe.
Go on, fetch.
A bad climb, no, just another challenge. What's life without 'em, right, Agent Travers.
Looks like the Tower. It's a bad climb.
Suits, underwear, 100 million dollars...the usual stuff. Travers was smart enough to bring along a tracking device. Step into my office.
You know how the airlines are.
This is where your background in police work comes in handy--ask the questions, Travers.
It can't fly in this weather.
That was the first and last question-- now only answers. Where's the chopper?
You keep it. Get up there if you can, and if you get a chance, do me a favor and kill him.
Take the gun.
Not on that leg.
I'm going with you.
Give him the money.
What are we going to do?
Hey, about everything that happened with Sarah. I know you did what you could--
Near Freedom Falls. She went for help.
How's your leg? I'll live. Where'd you leave Jessie?
Thanks for staying around when you didn't have to.
Forget me. If you can, get away.
If you want, do it. I don't care.
No, buddy, it was you who dropped it!
And you weren't looking into her eyes when she fell. Now drop it!
What the hell do you know about bad time. You didn't love her, you didn't have to explain to her family.
Look, it was a bad time for everybody.
We'll never know, will we?
There wasn't time for anything else.
Well you were wrong! It was your weight on the line that did it--
I did what I thought was right.
You don't know anything. You did it your way and she died.
Look, I know--
Can't pass up another chance to play hero, can you.
I'm here for the same reason you are, so let's do it.
You're gone now! I don't climb with people I can't trust. Why'd you come up, to prove something?
When we get this group down, I'm gone.
Now let me fill you in. You can get your ass back down an' go back to that hole you been hiding in--
I was with Jessie, she filled me in.
What the hell are you doing here?!
Sarah, hold on, he'll have you in a second. Jesus Christ, grab her!
She's losing it!
The clip's not gonna hold!
No, stay off the line! You'll break her loose!
I'm coming out!
Hey, fuck you.
Remember, keep your arms and legs within the vehicle at all times--
Wait 'til you get into trouble, just wait.
Rescue One -- have located helpless climber, please prepare <u>idiot line</u> for transport, over.
I love you, too.
Funny, he told me he twisted it gettin' out of a hot tub.
I think it's out. No big deal. It's that old football injury.
Hey, anything for a friend. How's the knee?
Glad you could drop in.
You're not gonna die. Grab me with your other hand!
Help me! I don't want to die!
Use your other hand! Grab it!
I'm here! Sarah, I'm here! I'm here--I've got you!
Please -- oh, no -- please!
Nice and easy...
That's it, you look like a professional.
There you go.
I'm sorry for all the trouble... Thank you.
Sure you can.
Can I count as fast as I like?
Just keep lookin' at me and only think about the distance <u>across</u>. Count it as you go: One, two...by eight you'll be there.
Please, can I think about this for a minute...Okay, I'm sorry, it's fine. What do you want me to do?
Okay--I don't know about this.
Sarah, tonight why don't you and Hal come over for dinner?
Is it really four thousand?
Sarah, we could take off and leave this guy behind...
Fine, I guess...
How're ya feeling?
Room service...Hi, Sarah.
And miss all of this peace and quiet? Never, right Hal?
There's a lot more where that came from. You're not leaving again?
The "old mouth to mouth" resuscitation routine.
What about you?!
Can't do it. Now go back and get help!
Gabe? Wait 'til I get over there. Tie the rope so I can come across.
Don't lay any guilt on me. Suicide's a personal thing, best done alone.
Fine, it shouldn't bother your conscience.
Forget it! I refuse!
An' if I miss, dig in and try your best to slow the fall.
I'm going to wrap it around your throat!
Wrap it around that rock twice.
Enough's enough. How could anybody in their right mind... then again, you never were in your right mind.
Take the rope.
I won't do it. No way.
Take the rope.
Are you crazy? Has the altitude shrunk your brain, Gabe?
We don't have time to argue about it!
Hand-holds?! I can barely see them.
But maybe with a good start I can hit those hand-holds.
Oh, good. For a minute I thought you'd lost your mind.
What do you think? Maybe I could reach the ledge without falling. No, forget it.
What about you?
That's exactly what I want you to do.
My heart can't take much more of this. Look, if we climb down from here, it'll take two hours to get back to the station.
"Time is money" -- please.
Forget it. You're in no shape to climb alone. I stayed with you this far, and you didn't drop me, so I owe you. C'mon, let's go. Hurry up, time is money.
There's no "we". There's a me. All I have to do is make it along the north wall to Bitker Ladder. What you're doing is going back down to the station to get help. And don't put on that mad face.
If we go along the northern ridge, we can get there first.
Crockett River is where the last of the money fell.
I don't know. I don't know.
I'm holding you to that. Gabe, what about Frank?
We were going together before I ever let go of you.
Thanks for holding on.
Do it, goddammit!
Don't let me fall!
Reach up! Do it!
Hold on! Hold on! Reach up!
Frank! No, Frank! Frank!
Helluva time for vanity!
I've never weighed 135 lbs.!
These old ropes can hold 900 lbs., each strand 300. I'm 190, you're about 135 -- it just may hold.
This rope is sixty years old!
Start pulling it apart! We're climbing down on it.
Pull it apart!
Forget it. If that charge goes off before we can reach it, this whole damn crevice will slam shut on us. This way.
We might be able to go that way.
We gotta get out and fire a flare. It's the only chance!
They'll kill him! He has no idea!
She's a lyin' bitch!!
Next time, date only basketball players.
For the record, whenever you hear me sliding out of control, I'm never alright. When I secure the line, come on up.
Gabe are you alright?
Can you see light?
No, not really. Throw down a rope.
Gabe! Are you alright?
If we don't get out of here soon we can ask him in person.
What was God thinking when he built this place?
Nice view, huh?
Want me to lead?
A simple yes or no would have done.
I've gone this far, and right now I think I'm in better shape than you.
We have to get through to the other side. You up for it?
Sure, just give it back when you're done.
If you're not using your arm, can I borrow it?
I don't know. Here, lay down and get some rest. We're going to need it.
Why can't things stay the way they are...everything has to change. What we had was perfect.
No, actually it was more like mutual attacking.
Only kidding...<u>actually</u> I attacked you.
Can you think of something more romantic than attacked?
You attacked me.
It was great.
Of course I do.
Remember the first time we came up here?
Call me sentimental.
You still wear the cable necklace I gave you.
Making things real rough for Hal.
Neither can I. What do you think they're doing now?
I can't believe you just said that.
I'm glad you find humor in this. Do you know what people would do for that?
Man, it costs a fortune to heat this place.
Don't worry about me, just go.
What about you?
Take off and meet me at Eagle Cave.
You know me, I'm a night person.
They've got to find shelter soon, and so do we. How are you holding up?
Let's be creative.
Yeah, let's go.
For the same reason you did, to help.
That's no good. It'll be dark soon, there's no other shelter for ten miles. If they show, they'll take you too. Why'd you have to come up here?!
I can't. The radio's at the bottom of the shaft. But Frank'll be looking for me soon. When he gets here I'll contact everybody from the chopper.
Before it crashed, they dumped three cases filled with millions. They're using Hal for a bird dog. Once they find the money, Hal's dead. So get on your radio, contact Frank, have him pick you up, then contact the state police, the park police and anything else wearing a badge and tell them to get up here! Do it Jessie.
Where's Hal, what's going on?
You got to go back now!
Frank dropped me in the west valley and I hiked. You look frozen. What's happening?!
How'd you get up here?
Looking for Hal. Oh my God, I heard someone kick the door open...you came back.
What are you doing here!?
I only came back for you.
Can't do it? I don't believe this. Don't you feel anything?
Can't do it.
I know you don't want to be responsible for anybody's life anymore, but walk away and you are responsible. Please Gabe, he went up the west ridge. If you go up the south face, you can catch him, no problem--
You mean the nerve.
I haven't climbed in months--you lose the feel.
What if he can't?
He can handle it.
That's not the issue here, those people are. He can't do it alone.
He doesn't want my help.
If he gets up there and the weather gets as bad as it can, they'll never make it down. He needs someone who has emergency medical training and knows every handhold on these peaks.
Hal knows what he's doing.
Thank God you didn't leave. We just got a Mayday. Seven climbers stranded off Comb Bluff. The weather's pouring in fast and Hal's gone up alone.
Jess--you look good.
You know where everything is... I'm late for my shift.
If it's alright, I'm gonna pick up the rest of my gear.
And I can't leave.
Like I said, I can't turn it off.
You come back after being gone almost a year, and you expect me to just leave... This was <u>our</u> home, now it's <u>my</u> home. I can't leave. You can stay with me, and believe me, I want you to, but to just take off for the wrong reasons, I can't do it. And you shouldn't either.
It doesn't matter, anywhere but here.
I can't. Not here. If you want, I'd like you to come with me...somewhere else.
Gabe, did you come back to stay? You didn't.
No, I think I will, it's safer. I have patience.
Course maybe you don't have to wait until I faint.
From one professional to another, of course.
Listen to you... The old "mouth-to-mouth" resuscitation routine, huh?
Flare up of old emotions...
A flare up...
Maybe lead to a flare up...
Which could maybe what?
--mouth-to-mouth, which could maybe...
Okay, but if you do I'll have to perform resuscitation--
I'm not going to faint, but if I want to faint, I'll faint, okay?
Y'know, yelling at this altitude can lead to hyperventilation and fainting--
Did I miss something?
Why are you yelling?
Why are you yelling?
You're saying, I don't understand? I'm the <u>only</u> one who does understand. I'm the one you lived with for two years, I'm the one you made promises to, I'm the one who spent too many nights looking up at these rocks and wondering if you were ever going to make it down in once piece or ever at all. Believe me, there's been times I didn't know what I wanted to do more, love you or hate you. But the one thing in our relationship that I did know and still do know is that I <u>understand you</u>.
I don't understand?
I don't expect you to understand.
Then turn it off, Gabe, because it doesn't get any better.
I can't blame anything on Hal. It was me. I play it back in my mind everyday.
I was there, you were the only one who didn't panic. So do everyone a favor, don't hog all the guilt. You held on as long as you could. Yes, everything did go wrong, starting with Hal. I mean, what was he doing up on the Tower with a girl who could barely climb?
Did I? I don't know. Maybe I shouldn't have gone out on that line. Maybe I panicked.
Why can't you believe that you did everything you could?
I don't think you do.
A lot of things fell apart up there.
Had to leave? Believe me, we all wanted to leave...but you know what? We stayed.
After the funeral I just had to leave.
Maybe I can help. Let's see... if one night I got up and packed up all my things and drove away without leaving so much as a note, and stayed away for months, I think what I'd want to do is come up with a well thought-out reason.
Working...I'm trying to figure out where to start.
Where've you been?
When you call me Gabriel, I know I've got trouble.
On my way. Alright Sarah, are you ready for the best ride in the park?
The winds are picking up.
Don't believe it... You know the trouble with you is you have no brain filter. Everything you think just pours right out.
And when I came down, my morals were corrupted forever.
Yeah, we were caught in a storm. I went up there an innocent climber...
We spent a night there one night...
You can stop right there.
The ledge, I know it well, or should I say <u>we</u> know it well.
He knows it well.
Don't say that. You'll embarrass Frank.
Oh, my God! I can't recognize the face, but the butt does look vaguely familiar.
Just hangin' out.
Gabe? Gabe, where are you?
Wait, I think I have them sighted. What's the word, Frank?
That's a virtue isn't it?
Patience my love, patience.
Do you see them yet?
Now you get burned.
Never could save a thing.
What the fuck you mean you burned it?
I burned it.
Your mouth's writing a check your ass can't cash, but if ya wanna buy some life, bring me the money.
Good memory. You must be great with numbers.
Look here, the mountain man. You're Walker, right?
What are you talking about?
No, the goddamn game's not over! It's never over when you're playing against a team that doesn't care if they win or lose-- how do you negotiate with someone like that?!
Qualen, go fuck yourself. The game's over--you lost.
Tucker, you know where the money is-- I want it.
When he finds the money, you're as dead as me.
Travers, you're not running things.
I'm touched. Kristel, check the chopper, let's go.
He never hurt anybody.
You said there was a way across.
Kill a few people, they call you a murderer. When you kill millions, you're called a conqueror. Go figure. Move on Tucker, time is short.
You son of a bitch! You said you wouldn't kill him!
We're not animals, but don't force us to be. Walk over.
For Christ's sake, they're kids.
It's up there, on the Tower.
No, he's close, and he's using our money to keep you alive. Nobody's worth that much on the open market. Except you, the loyal one. Didn't I tell you to warm the place up?
No, he's gone.
Souvenirs? No, wrong answer. Looks like your friend plans on hanging around, that possible?
The only faster way up is the East Face and it's smooth as glass. Maybe a dozen guys in the world could do it in good weather, only a psycho would try it in a storm.
Mr. Travers is not the athletic type, he needs something more direct.
Jessie, I reached the top of the Tower. So far, no sign of anyone. Looks like a phoney call. Over.
Talk. No tricks, no codes, no messages. You haven't found us. It was a fake call.
The best he can since you gave him nothing.
What's he doing?
Ryan, get a rope, I want the man on a leash, too.
Right, all the bullets we can eat.
The faster you find the bags, the bigger you boys' finder's fee will be.
What the hell's going on?
Where's the helicopter?
There. You blind?
Then where the fuck is!
Half a day.
He asked you, how far?! I think you've been taking the scenic route. How far from here?
It looks like a winding route.
On top of the peak.
The down drafts would wipe her out. It's the only chopper. If it goes, you got no ride out.
Have her come up.
Tucker and Walker, we've lost three bags.
Tucker and Walker.
What's your names?
Anyone else following?
Then it's a deal.
Climb, Gabe, climb!
Oh, my God!
<u>Negative</u>. The winds are too high. I'm going to ride out the storm here. I'll take shelter in the Douglas Exhibition Shaft. Over and out.
You gotta be kidding me! Do you want me to fly up after you? Over.
Bob and Rick are in Denver. I gotta get up there as fast as possible. Frank, get me a load of flares.
Where's the rest of the team?
You're looking at him.
Who's going with you?
You and Frank get the tents, thermal clothing, and medical supplies together.
Acknowledge. Winds are too strong to get a chopper up there, Are you near any natural shelter? Over.
Got to be Comb Bluff.
Hold on, baby, he'll get you.
Go after her.
Copy. Hal, tell Gabe he only makes advances <u>to me</u> or else he'll be walking down four thousand feet, and sleeping outside.
Rescue One -- please be advised Ranger Walker is making advances toward my girlfriend that are liable to get his ass kicked right into space, over.
What the hell are you waiting for, goddammit! Don't you see what he's doing! He's hijacking the shipment!
Calm down...give the gun to me. You're out of control, son.
These are highly trained agents overreacting without just cause.
Now I have jurisdiction! I said get your weapons.
What the hell are you doing--
Do you always transport through the air?
Who the hell ever is. This is the most protected shipment we've got-- and the most useless. These bills aren't even <u>in</u> circulation; the one thousand dollar bills we're transporting are only used for international banking exchange.
I don't know about totally.
Get off the radio!
I don't give a shit, Qualen! I had to be insane to ever tie up with a low-life, piece of shit like you. They beat us. A couple of fuckin' hick mountain boys beat the man no law agency ever could.
No names, this is an open line!
No, that son-of-a-bitch Walker is alive.
You got what we need?
Give me the fucking code!
I told you, 50,000 possible keycode combinations, in fifteen second intervals.
What's the code, Travers?
Insurance against him finding that last case ahead of us.
Why the hell are we wasting time here?!
Primed to go off right over his head, officer.
Is it set?
Hey, you dealt us this hand, we're playing it all the way. Move.
This is insane. The hell with the money. You radio in for that chopper, understand!
You dumb bastard, you waited too long. If he made it back, this place would have been covered with police in a few hours. The way we're moving, it's going to be anyway.
Good, Travers. It might catch on, like shooting skeet.
We're down to a few hours before the whole world shows up here. Where's the next one?
Jessie? Looks like your friend found company.
He can't be far away. Find him. Go!
Then go fetch.
Down there you buy a life, up here you earn it or die. How's your health?
What about it?
Man against nature, right Travers.
We can't and he knows it.
Bring down the money or your friend's dead!
Kill him when he gets down.
I don't trust him.
We agree on something. And for insurance, take his coat.
Don't give him anything.
I haven't even got on it yet. Let's go, time to fetch.
Get off my back, Qualen!
There, what's that place?
Where's the third one, Travers?
You're both with the mountain rescue team?
Ask the questions.
Don't use my name!
The monitor! I never ask twice.
Why? What are you going to do?!
Were. Give me the tracking monitor!
Kill me? Christ we're partners in this!
Let's move your ass in there!!
What's the delay?
Somehow I didn't think you'd wait for me if I'd sent it first.
Why didn't you send the money over?
On my way. The cases are hooked up and ready.
Travers! Hurry it up.
We should be. Everybody wants what we have.
I think Treasury personnel are the most superstitious people in the federal government.
I haven't lost a bill in eighteen years, don't jinx me, Walt.
Mostly. Armored cars can be hijacked. Trains can be derailed. But nobody can get to us in flight.
You're the boss. Let's head out to the tarmac. Matheson, have you been totally briefed?
We've got a full crew, but we can squeeze one more, right.
Matheson has been transferred from the Denver office to Frisco. As a professional courtesy between offices, I was asked if he could hitch a ride.
I'd like to have a word with you. This is Agent Matheson, FBI.
Good morning, Walt.
Long time, is right. I don't remember them days too horrorshow. Don't call me Dim no more, either. Officer, call me.
I just don't get this all. It was them that went for me, brothers. You're not on their side and can't be. You can't be Dim. It was someone we fillied with back in the old days... Trying to get his own malenky bit of revenge after all this time. You remember, Dim?
Been cured, yeah, that was read out to us. The Inspector read all that out to us. He said it was a very good way.
I've been cured.
Been punished, yeah?
Come, come, my little droogies. I just don't get this at all. The old days are dead and gone. For what I did in the past I've been punished.
Come on, Alex. Come for walkies. Hahahahaha.
Impossible... I don't believe it.
Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, if it isn't little Alex. Long time no viddy, droog. How goes? Surprised are you?
You bastards... bastards.
One minoota, droogie. Dim smashes Alex in the face with a full milk bottle. He goes down. The others run away, laughing.
Lets get things nice and sparkling clear. This sarcasm, if I may call it such, does not become you, O my brothers. As I am your droog and leader, I am entitled to know what goes on, eh? Now then, Dim, what does that great big horsy gape of a grin portend?
Sorry about the pain. Using the gulliver to much like, eh? Giving orders and disciplining and that perhaps, eh? You sure the pain's gone? You sure you'll not be happier back up in bed.
Welly, welly, welly, welly, welly, welly, well. To what do I owe the extreme pleasure of this surprising visit? Georgie rises.
He are here! He have arrived! Hooray!
Doobidoob... a bit tired maybe, everybody is. A long night for growing malchicks... best not to say more. Bedways is rigthways now, so best we go homeways and get a bit of spatchka. Right, right.
A nozh scrap any time you say. Dim weakens.
Yarbles, great bolshy yarblockos to you I'll meet you with chain, or nozh or britva, any time, not having you aiming tolchocks at me reasonless. It stands to reason, I won't have it.
Watch that... Do watch that, O Dim, if to continue to be on live thou dost wish.
I don't like you should do what you done. And I'm not your brother no more and wouldn't want to be.
For being a bastard with no manners and not a dook of an idea how to comport yourself publicwise, O my Brother.
What did you do that for?
There was some sophistos from the TV studios around the corner, laughing an govoreeting. The Devotchka was smecking away, and not caring about the wicked world one bit. Then the disc on the stereo twanged off and out, and in the short silence before the next one came on, she suddenly came with a burst of singing, and it was like for a moment, O my brothers, some great bird had flown into the milkbar and I felt all the malenky little hairs on my plott standing endwise, athe shivers crawling up like slow malenky lizards and then down again. Because I knew what she sang. It was a bit from the glorious 9th, by Ludwig van. Dim makes a lip-trump followed by a dog howl, followed by two fingers pronging twice in the air, followed by a clowny guffaw. Alex brings his stick down smartly on Dim's legs.
Pardon me. Luce. He raises glass to breast, pulls red handle between her legs. Milk spurts into glass. Dim joins the others. Alex looks at a party of tourists.
We've been working hard too. Takes glass.
Hello Lucy, had a busy night? Puts money in machine.
No, no my boy. No trouble at all. Alex slowly sits.
Look, sir. I'm sorry to have troubled you. I think I ought to be going, sir. Julian bars the way.
Julian. This will be these people now. Alex gets up.
They're very, very important people and they're interested in you. Bell rings. Julian rises,
Who are they, sir?
Help me, sir?
Yes. They want to help.
Phoned some friends, sir?
And now you, another victim of the modern age. But you can be helped. I phoned some friends while you were having a bath.
She was very badly raped, you see. We were assaulted by a gang of vicious young hooligans in this house, in this very room you're sitting in now. I was left a helpless cripple. The doctors said it was Pneumonia, because it happened some months later during the 'flu epidemic. The doctors told me it was Pneumonia, but I knew what it was. A victim of the modern age, poor, poor girl. Suddenly his mood changes. He wheels right up to Alex.
I'm sorry to hear about that, sir. His face contorted in rage.
No. She's dead!
Your wife, sir? Has she gone away?
... used to do everything for me and leave me to my writing.
My wife... Alex freezes.
Thank you, sir.
I'm so pleased you appreciate good wine. Have another glass!
And you, sir?
No, my health doesn't allow it.
Won't you join me, sir?
Thank you very much, sir. Cheers Suddenly the thought occurs to Alex that the wine may be drugged or poisoned.
Try the wine!
Great, sir. Great.
Of course. Food alright?
It was very kind of you to leave this out for me, sir. There was no-one around when I finished my bath, so I started. I hope that's alright, sir.
Good evening, sir.
Then, by God, you have been sent here by providence. Tortured in prison, then thrown out to be tortured by the Police. My heart goes out to you, poor, poor boy. Oh, you are not the first to come here in distress. The Police are fond of bringing their victims to the outskirts of this village. But it is providential that you, who are also another kind of victim, should come here. But you're cold and shivering. Julian, draw a bath for this young man.
Yes, sir, that's exactly who I am, sir... and what I am... a victim, sir. Mr. Alexander becomes frenzied as the speech progresses.
I know who you are! Isn't it your picture in the newspapers? Didn't I see you this morning on the video? Are you not the poor victim of this horrible new technique?
The police... The horrible ghastly Police. They beat me up, sir. The Police beat me up, sir. Mr. Alexander stares at him. It becomes apparent he is insane.
Dear, dear, dear. Whatever happened to you, my boy? Mr. Alexander, now confined to a wheelchair, pushes himself away from his desk, and rolls up to Julian. The water drips off Alex's clothes. They look at each other.
Cut the shit, sonny, and get out of here before you get yourself in some very serious trouble. He rocks the giant phallus which has a special weight swinging inside causing it to swing up and down an eccentric motion.
You see, madam, I am part of an international student's contest to see who can get the most points for selling magazines.
No! No! Don't touch it. That's a very important work of art. What the bloody hell do you want?
Naughty, naughty, naughty, you filthy old soomaka.
Now listen here, you little bastard, just you turn around and walk out of here the same way as you came in. Alex eyes a giant white, fibreglass phallic sculpture on the table beside him.
Our brief govereet thru the letter hole was not, shall we say, satisfactory, yes?
What the bloody hell d'you think you're doing?
Hi, hi, hi there, at last we meet.
Very well, madam. I suppose you can't be blamed for being suspicious with so many scoundrels and rouges of the night about. Alex walks away from door, then ducks into the bushes where the others are hiding. They put on their maskies and follow Alex round to the rear of the house.
I... I'm very sorry, but I never open. I'm very sorry but I never open the door to strangers after dark.
But, missus, this is an emergency. It's a matter of life and death. Me friend's lying in the middle of the road bleeding to death.
I'm frightfully sorry. There is a telephone in the Public House about a mile down the road. I suggest you use that.
Excuse me, missus, can you please help? There's been a terrible accident. Can I please use your telephone for an ambulance?
Yes, sir. Rubinstein takes out a notebook.
Well, shall we get down to it?
What would you like to know, sir?
But first we'd like to find out a few things about you.
Thank you very much, sir.
Well, as I've said, we've heard about you. We are interested in your case. We want to help you.
Fine, sir, fine.
Feel like talking to us. Answering a few questions?
Much better, thank you, sir.
Hahaha, and how are you feeling now?
Yes, sir. I suppose you might call it that, sir.
I understand that you had a rather unfortunate encounter with the Police tonight.
Very kind of you, sir. Thank you very much.
Missus. Very pleased to meet you.
How do you do, sir?
So this is the young man?
Sorry, Em, I wanted it to be like... a big surprise for you and pee.
Why didn't you let us know what was happening, son?
Hullo love, how are you? Nice to see you, Dad.
Hi. Hi. Hi, there my Pee and Em. All three look up startled.
Alright, Mum... have a nice day at the factory.
Eeee... I'll put your breakfast in the oven. I've got to be off myself now.
I've got to rest, Mum... got to get fit, otherwise I'm liable to miss a lot more school.
You've not been to school all week, son.
Bit of pain in the gulliver, Mum. Leave us be and I'll try to sleep it off... then I'll be as right as dodgers for this after.
It's past eight, Alex, you don't want to be late for school, son.
It will be your own torture. I hope to God it will torture you to madness.
You try to frighten me, sir, admit so, sir. This is some new form of torture. Say it, brother, sir.
I've just come back from the hospital. Your victim has died.
Not true, sir. It was only a slight tolchock. She was breathing, I swear it.
You are now a murderer, little Alex. A murderer, yes.
As an unmuddied lake, sir. Clear as an azure sky of deepest summer. You can rely on me, sir. Deltoid drinks again but this time sees the teeth in the glass. He groans and retches.
That's just worries me. A bit too long to long to be reasonable. You're about due now by my reckoning, that's why I'm warning you, little Alex, to keep your handsome young proboscis out of the dirt. Do I make myself clear?
Nobody's got anything on me, brother, sir. I've been out of the rookers of the milicents for a long time now.
What gets into you all? We study the problem. We've been studying it for damn well near a century, yes, but we get no further with our studies. You've got a good home here, good loving parents, you've got not too bad of a brain. Is it some devil that crawls inside of you?
Cut out all this clever talk about milicents. Just because the Police haven't picked you up lately doesn't, as you very well know, mean that you've not been up to some nastiness. There was a bit of a nastiness last night, yes. Some very extreme nastiness, yes. A few of a certain Billyboy's friends were ambluenced off late last night, yes. Your name was mentioned, the word's got thru to me by the usual channels. Certain friends of yours were named also. Oh, nobody can prove anything about anybody as usual, but I'm warning you, little Alex, being a good friend to you as always, the one man in this sore and sick community who wants to save you from yourself. Deltoid makes a grab for Alex's joint but finds his hand instead. Alex laughs. Derisively and rises. Deltoid distractedly reaches for a glass of water on the night table, and fails to notice a set of false teeth soaking in them. He drinks from the glass. The clink of the teeth sounding like ice-cubes.
I've been doing nothing I shouldn't, sir. The millicents have nothing on me, brother, sir, I mean. Deltoid pulls Alex down on the bed.
A big black mark I tell you for every one we don't reclaim. A confession of failure for every one of you who ends up in the stripy hole.
Because next time it's going to be the barry place and all my work ruined. If you've no respect for your horrible self, you at least might have some for me who'se sweated over you. He slaps Alex on the knee.
Well, yes, it's just a manner of speech from your Post Corrective Advisor to you that you watch out, little Alex. He puts his arm round Alex's shoulder.
Just a manner of speech, sir.
Wrong? Why should you think of anything being wrong, have you been doing something you shouldn't. Yes? He shakes Alex's hair.
To what do I owe this extreme pleasure, sir? Anything wrong, sir? Deltoid "playfully" grabs Alex's hair.
No time, no time, yes. Sit, sit, sit. Alex sits next to him.
A cup of the old chai, sir?
Oh, or certainly by this evening, yes? The evening's a great time, isn't it, Alex boy?
A rather intolerable pain in the head, brother, sir. I think it should be clear by this afterlunch.
Ah, Alex boy, awake at last, yes? I met your mother on the way to work, yes? She gave me the key. She said something about a pain somewhere... hence not at school , yes?
Well done, Frank. Julian, get the car, will you please?
Um... well, put it this way... I feel very low in myself. I can't see much in the future, and I feel that any second something terrible is going to happen to me. He pitches forward, face into the plate of spaghetti.
Do you still feel suicidal?
Um... oh no, sir, not exactly, I still feel very miserable, very much down in spirits.
Do you feel that way now?
Snuff it, sir... um... death, I mean, missus... Er... I just want to die peacefully like with no... pain.
I beg your pardon?
That is correct, sir. And then all I can think about is like trying to snuff it.
When you say this funny feeling, you mean the state of mind brought on by the treatment they gave you?
That's right. Er... I can't listen to the 9th any more at all. When I hear the 9th, I get like this funny feeling.
You mean Beethoven's 9th Symphony?
Oh well, it's... it's not all music you see, Missus. It's just the 9th.
So now you have the same reaction to music as you do to sex and violence?
And it just so happened that while they were showing me a particularly bad film, of like a concentration camp, the background music was playing Beethoven.
It's alright, thank you.
Well, er, I think that was something that they hadn't planned for, you see, Missus, I'm very fond of music and always have been, especially Beethoven, Ludwig van... Beethoven. B... E... E... He leans over and looks at her writing in notebook.
The newspapers mentioned that in addition to your being conditioned against acts of sex and violence, you've inadvertently been conditioned against music.
Tell me more, Georgie Boy.
It's this Health Farm. A bit out of the town. Isolated. It's owned by this like very rich ptitsa who lives there with her cats. The place is shut down for a week and she's completely on her own, and it's full up with like gold and silver and like jewels.
Come, come, come, Georgie Boy. You're a big strong chelloveck like us all. We're not little children, are we, Georgie Boy? What, then, didst thou in thy mind have? Confrontation. Georgie backs down.
Not tonight - not this nochy.
Oh, the old moloko-plus first, would you not say
Good. Real horrorshow. Initiative comes to them as waits. I've taught you much, my little droogies. Now tell me what you have in mind, Georgie Boy.
Brother, you think and talk sometimes like a little child. Tonight we pull a mansize crast.
And what will you do with the big, big, money? Have you not everything you need? If you need a motor-car, you pluck it from the trees. If you need pretty polly, you take it.
Well, we go round shop crasting and the like, coming out with a pitiful rookerful of money each.
New way? What's this about a new way? There's been some very large talk behind my sleeping back, and no error. Let me hear more.
All right, no more picking on Dim, brother. That's part of the new way.
Appy polly loggies. I had something of a pain in the gulliver so had to sleep. I was not awakened when I gave orders for awakening.
We got worried. There we were waiting and drinking away at the old knify Moloko and you had not turned up and we thought you might have been like offended by something or other, so around we come to your abode.
Thank you, Fred. Thank you. Minister turns and signals. Door opens and a crowd of cameramen and reporters rush in. Aides push two 6-foot loudspeakers and a Hi-Fi on a trolley.
One I think you will like... as a, how shall I put it, as a symbol of our new understanding. An understanding between two friends.
Good... good boy. Oh yes, I understand you're fond of music. I have arranged a little surprise for you.
As an unmuddied lake, Fred. As clear as an azure sky of deepest summer. You can rely on me, Fred.
My name is Frederick. As I was saying, Alex, you can be instrumental in changing the public verdict. Do you understand, Alex? Have I made myself clear?
Certainly, sir. What do they call you at home?
Mmmm, possibly. Yes. But public opinion has a way of changing and you, Alex, if I may call you, Alex?
Well, who can blame them, sir?
We always help our friends, don't we? It is no secret that the Government has lost a lot of popularity because of you, my boy. There are some that think that at the next election we shall be out. The press has chosen to take a very unfavourable view of what we tried to do.
Helping you, sir?
You must have an interesting job at a salary which you would regard as adequate. Not only for the job which you are going to do and in compensation for what you believe you have suffered, but also because you are helping us.
What job and how much?
We put him away where he can do you no harm. You see we are looking after your interests. We are interested in you, and when you leave here you will have no further worries. We shall see to everything... a good job on a good salary.
Where is he now, sir?
I can tell you that I... and the Government of which I am a member are deeply sorry about this, my boy. Deeply sorry. We tried to help you. We followed recommendations had been made to us that turned out to be wrong. An enquiry will place the responsibility where it belongs. We want you to regard us as friends. We've put you right, you're the best of treatments. We never wished you harm, but there are some that did and do, and I think you know who those are. There are certain people who wanted to use you for political ends. People who would have been glad to have you dead because then they would have been able to blame it all on the Government. I think you know who those are. There is also a certain man - a writer of subversive literature - who has been howling for your blood. He's been mad with desire to stick a knife into you, but you're safe from him now, we've put him away. He found out that you had done wrong to him - at least he believed you had done wrong. He had formed this idea in his head that you h
Thank you, sir.
Yes I can... Oh look, let me do that for you, shall I?
I've suffered the tortures of the damned. The tortures of the damned, sir.
Yes... well good to see you on the mend. I've kept in constant touch with the hospital, of course, and now I've come to see you personally to see how you're getting along.
Yes, sir, and a very lovely place it is too, sir, when I wake up in the middle of the night with my pain.
Hi, hi, hi there, my little droogies.
Good evening, my boy.
Fine. Absolutely fine. You see, Ladies and Gentlemen our subject is, you see, impelled towards good by paradoxically being impelled toward evil. The intention to act violently is accompanied by strong feelings of physical distress. To counter these, the subject has to switch to a diametrically opposed attitude. Any questions? Priest rises and moves to Alex.
Was I alright, sir? Did I do well, sir?
No, sir, I feel really great.
Not feeling too bad now are you?
Thank you very much. Thank you my dear. Girl bows and exits to loud applause.
She came towards me with the light like it was the like light of heavenly grace, and the first thing that flashed into my gulliver was that I would like to have her right down there on the floor with the old in-out, real savage. But quick as a shot came the sickness, like a detective that had been watching around the corner and now followed to make his arrest. Alex retching. Minister rises.
Let's hope you make the most of it, my boy.
Thank you very much for this chance, sir.
The accidental killing of a person, sir.
What crime did you commit.
I did, sir.
Who said that?
There, there mother, it's alright. He doesn't mean it. You were in the papers again, son. It said they had done great wrong to you. It said how the Government drove you to try and do yourself in... and when you think about it, son... maybe it was our fault too in a way... your home's your home when it's all said and done, son. Em sobs.
What gives, O my Pee and Em, what makes you think you are welcome? Em sobs. Pee comforts her.
Well, all this needs thinking about, son. I mean we can't very well just kick Joe out... Not just like that, can we? I mean Joe is here doing a job. A contract it is, two years. Well, we made like an arrangement, didn't we Joe? You see, son, Joe's paid next month's rent already so, well, whatever we do in the future, we cant just say to Joe to get out, now can we?
What's gonna happen to me then? I mean that's my room he's in - there's no denying that. This is my home also. What suggestions have you, my Pee and Em, to make?
Oh well, he met with like an accident. He passed away. Alex becomes a bit weepy.
What about Basil? Where's my snake?
Well. That was all took away, son, by the Police. New regulation about compensation for the victim.
No thanks, Mum. It'll pass in a minute... ... What have you done with all my own personal things?
How do you do, Joe? Find the room comfortable, do you? No complaints?
Aye, that's Joe. He... ummmm, lives here now. The lodger. That's what he is... he... he rents your room. Alex confronts Joe.
Hey, Dad, there's a strange fella sitting on the sofa there munchy- wunching lomticks of toast.
Oh, aye, aye.
Well, still the same old place then, eh?
That's right, Dad they did a great job on my gulliver, I'm completely reformed.
Aye. Glad to see you back, lad.
Well - I'm back.
Oh fine, fi. Keeping out of trouble, you know.
Well, how are you then?
Keeping fit then?
Hullo lad. What a surprise, good to see you.
And, O my brothers, would you believe your faithful friend and long suffering narrator pushed out his red yahzik a mile and a half to lick the grahzny, vonny boots. The horrible killing sickness had wooshed up and turned the like joy of battle into a feeling I was going to snuff it. Minister rises.
... And again... Go on!!! Again! There's a good boy.
You wanna get up? Well, you've gotta you see... well I want you to lick it. Go on... Lick it. Alex, gagging and coughing, licks the sole of his shoe.
Let me get up.
You wanna be sick?
I wanna be sick.
You're gonna be sick are you?
I'm gonna be sick.
... because I don't like you horrible type, do I, and if you want to start something... if you want to start... go on... well, you just start. Please do. Alex retching.
... and that... He pulls Alex's ear, pushes him off balance and plants his foot on his chest.
... and this... He pulls Alex's nose.
You want to know why I did that, well you see - I do that... He stamps on Alex's foot.
Why did you do that, brother? I've never done wrong to you.
Oh. Oh, you're sorry are you, well you must think I'm awfully stupid. He slaps Alex in the face.
Sorry, brother. I didn't mean any offence.
What do I want?
No, brother. What d'you want?
Oh, he had a shower this morning. You trying to call me a liar?
Why do you say that, brother? I had a shower this morning.
Hello, heap of dirt. Pooh, you don't wash much do you, judging by the horrible smell.
Right. Halt the prisoner. Good morning, sir, I'm Chief Officer Barnes. I've got 655321 on a transfer from Parkmoor to the Ludovico Centre, sir!
The next morning I was taken to the Ludovico Medical Facility, outside the town centre, and I felt a malenky bit sad having to say goodbye to the old Staja, as you always will when you leave a place you've like gotten used to. Chief Guard briskly leads the way for Alex and escort. They move into reception hall where the Doctor stands.
Shut your bleedin' hole!!!
You're absolutely right, sir.
Through there for a bath.
Right. The mothballs, Mister.
Are you an Epileptic?
Do you wear any false teeth or false limbs?
Have you ever had any mental illness?
Do you wear eye glasses or contact lenses?
Blue eyes, yes, sir.
Fair hair, sir.
Brown hair, is it?
Yes, sir, Church of England, sir.
Do you mean Church of England?
C of E, sir.
Now then, were you in Police custody this morning?
The chocolate and cigarettes you brought in - you lose that as you are now convicted. Now go over to the table and get undressed. Alex walks to table and undresses. Chief Guard moves to table with his clipboard.
Right. Sign here for your valuable property. Alex signs.
One half bar of chocolate. One bunch of keys on white metal ring. One packet of cigarettes. Two plastic ball pens - one black, one red. One pocket comb - black plastic. One address book - imitation red leather. One ten penny piece. One white metal wristlet watch, "Timawrist" on a white metal expanding bracelet. Anything else in your pockets?
Pick that up and put it down properly. Alex does so, and continues to empty his pockets.
Right carry on. Alex tosses a bar of chocolate on the desk.
Then your toes belong on the other side of it!!!
Right. Take the cuffs off him, Mister. The cuffs are removed.
Alexander de Large, sir.
You are now in H.M. Prison Parkmoor and from this moment you will address all prison officers as sir! Name?
You've heard Beethoven before?
Are you referring to the background score?
You felt ill this afternoon because you're getting better. You see, when we're healthy we respond to the presence of the hateful with fear and nausea. You're becoming healthy that's all. By this time tomorrow you'll be healthier still.
I just don't understand about feeling sick the way I did. I never used to feel sick before. I used to feel like the very opposite. I mean, doing it or watching it, I used to feel real horrorshow. I just don't understand why, how what.
Well, of course, it was horrible. Violence is a very horrible thing. That's what you're learning now. Your body is learning it.
But it was horrible.
I imagine you'll be feeling a little bit limp by the end of the day. But we have to be hard on you. You have to be cured.
You mean, I have to viddy two sessions in one day?
Well, that was a very promising start. By my calculations, you should be starting to feel alright again. Yes? Dr. Brodsky's pleased with you. Now tomorrow there'll be two sessions, of course, morning and afternoon.
Well, that's good. I like to viddy the old films now and again.
Something like that.
You mean like going to the pictures?
It's quite simple really. Were just going to show you some films.
What exactly is the treatment here going to be then?
Something like that. You are a little undernourished, so after each meal were going to give you a shot. Roll over on your right side please, loosen your pyjama pants and pull them half-way down. He does, somewhat reluctantly. She gives him a shot in the bum.
Vitamins will it be then?
Oh no, nothing of the sort.
What's the hypo for then? Going to send me to sleep?
I hope so, Missus. She inserts a needle into the medicine vial.
We're going to friends now, sir.
I realise all that, Missus, and I'm very grateful to all concerned.
Good. In a few minutes, you'll meeting Dr. Brodsky and we'll begin your treatment. You're a very lucky boy to have been chosen.
How're you feeling this morning?
Indeed it is. May I take this She removes his tray.
Good Morning, Missus. Lovely day, isn't it?
Good morning, Alex, my name is Dr. Branom. I'm Doctor Brodsky's assistant.
I'm sure it won't be long now.
And when do I get out of here then?
It's not that kind of a test. But you seem well on the way to a complete recovery.
How many did I get right?
Good. I'm glad
I was quite enjoying that.
I hope so. Is that the end then?
Fine. Well, that's all there is to it. Are you alright?
Eggiwegs. I would like to smash 'em. Pick up th elot and f... owww... He slams his hand down and cries out with pain.
Good. You can do whatever you like with these.
Excuse me, missus. No time for the old in-out, I've just come to read the meter. Slide of bird's nest with eggs.
Good. What do you want?
Bollocks. You know what you can do with that watch? You can stick it up your arse. Slide of nude woman in bed, a man at the window.
Good. It wa your fault... you sold me a crummy watch. I want my money back.
That's right and I'll smash your face for you, yarblockos. Slide of watch shop.
Good. The boy you always quarrelled with is seriously ill.
Right... Knickers... Cabbages... It doesn't have a beak. Alex laughs. Slide of woman speaking to boy.
Yes. Yes, well don't think about it too long, just say the first thing that pops into your mind.
I just say what the other person would say?
Isn't the plumage beautiful?
Righty, right. The doctor reads aloud the dialogue printed in the cartoon balloon - a peacock.
Now then, each of these slides needs a reply from one of the people in the picture. You'll tell me what you think the person would say. Alright?
Patients who've sustained the kind of injuries you have often have dreams of this sort. It's all part of the recovery process.
Well, when I was all like ashamed up and half awake and unconscious like, I kept having this dream like all these doctors were playing around with me gulliver. You know... like the inside of me brain. I seemed to have this dream over and over again. D'you think it means anything?
Ohhh... jolly good. Perhaps you can explain me something to me first.
No... I'm going to show you some slides and you are going to tell me what you think about them Alright?
What are we going to do? Talk about me sex life?
Just part of hospital routine.
Psychiatrist? Huh, do I need one?
I'm your Psychiatrist.
I haven't seen you before.
Good. I'm doctor Taylor.
How are you feeling today?
No, no, boy. You really must leave it to us, but be cheerful about it. In less than a fortnight now, you'll be a free man.
But, Sir... Missus... I see that it's wrong! It's wrong because it's like against like society. It's wrong because everybody has the right to live and be happy without being tolchocked and knifed.
You must take your chance boy. The choice has been all yours.
You're not cured yet, my boy.
You needn't take it any further, sir. You've proved to me that all this ultra-violence and killing is wrong and terribly wrong. I've learned my lesson, sir. I see now what I've never seen before I'm cured, praise Bog!
You're keen on music?
That!... Using Ludwig van like that! He did no harm to anyone. Beethoven just wrote music.
What's all this about sin?
Let me be sick... I want to get up. Get me something to be sick in... Stop the film... Please stop it... I can't stand it any more. Stop it please... please.
Very soon now the drug will cause the subject to experience a death- like paralysis together with deep feelings of terror and helplessness. One of our earlier test subjects described it as being like death, a sense of stifling and drowning, and it is during this period we have found the subject will make his most rewarding associations between his catastrophic experience and environment and the violence he sees. Alex retching violently and struggling against his strait jacket.
Then there was like a sea of dirty, smelly old men trying to get at your humble Narrator, with their feeble rookers and horny old claws. It was Old Age having a go at Youth and I daren't do a single solitary thing, O my brothers, it being better to be hit at like that, than want to be sick and feel that horrible pain. The Tramp crowd round Alex, shouting.
They laughed at me blood and me moans. This murderous young pig is a prize specimen of the cowardly brutal young. He is in our midst and at our mercy. Give it to him. That's it. Old Tramps begin to beat at Alex.
Stop him! Stop him! A leg is stuck out and Alex goes down. The tramp swarm all over him.
This is the poisonous young swine that near done me in. Him and his friends beat me and kicked me and thumped me. Alex breaks away again.
Leave me alone, brother. I've never seen you before. Tramp shouts to other Meths drinkers and Tramps.
I never forget a face! I never forget any face, be God!
Jamey Mack! Be the hokey fly! Holy Mother of God! All the Holy Angels and blessed saints in Heaven preserve us. Alex breaks away but the Tramp toddles alongside him.
Oh, thankyou, your honour. The Tramp takes a second look at Alex.
Can you spare me some cutter, me brother? Can you spare some cutter, me brother? Alex, without looking at him, reaches in his pocket and gives him some money.
It's a stinking world because there's no law and order any more. It's a stinking world because it lets the young get onto the old like you done. It's no world for an old man any more. What sort of a world is it at all? Men on the moon and men spinning around the earth and there's not no attention paid to earthly law and order no more. The Tramp starts singing again.
Oh - and what's so stinking about it?
Oh-hhh!!! Go on, do me in you bastard cowards. I don't want to live anyway, not in a stinking world like this.
Can you... can you spare some cutter, me brothers? Alex rams his stick into the Tramp's stomach. The boys laugh.
One thing I could never stand is to see a filthy, dirty old drunkie, howling away at the filthy songs of his fathers and going blerp, blerp in between as it might be a filthy old orchestra in his stinking rotten guts. I could never stand to see anyone like that, whatever his age might be, but more especially when he was real old like this one was. The boys stop and applaud him.
Amen. They cross themselves.
Instruct thy son and he shall refresh thee and shall give delight to thy soul.
Be patient, my son, and put your trust in the Lord.
I don't understand about the whys and wherefores, Father. I only know I want to be good.
The question is weather or not this technique really makes a man good. Goodness comes from within. Goodness is chosen. When a man cannot chose, he ceases to be a man.
I don't care about the danger, Father. I just want to be good. I want for the rest of my life to be one act of goodness.
It has not been used yet in this prison. The Governor has grave doubts about it and I have heard that there are very serious dangers involved.
But it is being used, isn't it, Father?
That's not proven, 655321. In fact, it is only in the experimental stage at this moment.
I don't know what it's called, Father, all I know is that it gets you out quickly and makes sure that you never get in again.
I take it you are referring to the Ludovico Technique?
These things get around, Father. Two Warders talk as it might be, and somebody can't help overhearing what they say. Then somebody picks up a scrap of newspaper in the workshops and the newspaper tells all about it. How about putting me in for this new treatment, Father?
Where did you hear about this? Whose been talking about these things?
No Father. It's nothing like that, Father. It's about this new thing they're all talking about. About this new treatment that you out of prison in no time at all and makes sure you never get back in again.
Certainly, my son, certainly. Is there something troubling you, my son? Don't be shy to speak up. Remember, I know all the urges that can trouble young men deprived of the society of women.
Father - may I ask you a question in private?
You certainly have not, 655321. You've been very helpful, and you've shown a genuine desire to reform.
And, Father, I've never been guilty of any institutional infractions, have I?
I've done my best, have I not?
You have, my son.
Father, I have tried, have I not?
Fine, my boy, fine, fine.
If thou lose hope being weary in the days of distress, thy strength shall be diminished.
Now then. Face the wall. Bend over and touch your toes. Chief Guard inspects Alex's anus with a penlight.
Are you now, or ever have been, a homosexual?
One pair of underpants - white with blue waistband.
Have you ever had any attacks of fainting or dizziness?
One pair of trousers - blue pinstriped.
Have you been receiving medical treatment for any serious illness?
One shirt - blue, collar attached.
One jacket - blue pinstripe.
It says that you are willing to have the residue of your sentence commuted to the Ludovico treatment. Alex signs. Governor gathers up papers. Alex dots the last "i" and smiles.
Don't read it - sign it!
Answer when the Governor asks you a question you filthy young swine!
You are to be reformed. Tomorrow you go to this man, Brodsky. You wbe leaving here. You will be transferred to the Ludovico Medical Facility. It is believed that you will be able to leave State custody in a little over a fortnight. I suppose that prospect pleases you?
Shut your filthy hole, you scum!!!
Forward to the white line, toes behind it. Full name and number to the Governor. Chief Guard closes door.
Very good, Chief. Chief Guard turns to Alex.
Sir, 655321, sir.
Carry on, Chief.
Leave to carry on, sir, please?
Very good, Chief. They inspect cells.
This is to make sure you stay cured. Georgie hits Alex in the stomach with his blackjack. Then, they push his head under the water and methodically start to beat him with their blackjacks. After a full minute of this, they drag him out, halt-drowned,
Enough is remembered though, little Alex. Dim and Georgie laugh. They drag Alex to a low water through.
Something to sharpen us up, you especially. We have the start.
Big, big money.
The shiny stuff. The Ice. The big, big, big money is available's what Will the English says.
Yeah... Pete the English.
And there's Will the English in the Muscleman coffee mesto saying he can fence anything that anything that any malchick tries to crast.
Are you feeling better?
Hullo, son, how are you?
Would you like me to make you a nice cup of tea, son?
D'you think we should do something?
Dad... It's the treatment. More retching.
Well, what's the matter lad, are you feeling alright?
Aye. You should have let us know, lad, not that we're not very pleased to see you again. All cured too, eh?
We've only just read about it in the morning papers.
Well, it's a surprise all right, a bit bewildering too.
Well, like he says, it's mostly odd things he does, helping like... here and there, as it might be.
I wonder where exactly is it he goes to work of evenings.
No I don't know, luv, I'd taken my sleepers.
Yes, I heard. D'you know what time he got in last night?
Shall we go to my office?
No, no, no. That's enough. He's perfect. I want his records sent to me. This vicious young hoodlum will be transformed out of all recognition.
Well, fine... we could still look at C-Block.
Not a chance, my dear fellow. The Ggovernment can't be concerned any longer with outmoded penological theories. Soon we may be needing all of out prison space for political offenders. Common criminals like these are best dealt with on a purely curative basis. Kill the criminal reflex that's all. Full implementation in a year's time. Punishment means nothing to them, you can see that... they enjoy their so-called punishment. Alex seizes his chance as they pass by.
I agree, sir. What we need are larger prisons. More money.
Cram criminals together and what do you get - concentrated criminality... crime in the midst of punishment.
Four in this block, sir.
How many to a cell?
Yes! Stay put, goddamn it! Don't move from that spot...
Max, I'm scared. Are you sure?
He doesn't know you're up there! Just stay right where you are! Call the police!
Seventh, files section. What should I do?
Where are you, what floor?
In my office?
...he's two floors below you.
No, no, <u>wait</u>...
...okay, Max, I believe you...I'll get out of the building...
It doesn't matter! Just get out of the goddamn building...
Did you say <u>Dmitri?</u> How do you know about my case? I don't understand...
Dmitri hired him! He's already killed all your witnesses, now he's coming after you! He was stalking you when I dropped you off. I don't know what happened, but he diverted and got into my cab, instead.
If this is a joke, it's not funny.
<u>Kill</u> you! He's coming to kill you!
He's...what? Say again? We're in cell hell...
Listen to me! Just listen, okay? There's a man, Vincent, he's coming to kill you!
Max? Oh... ...it's kind of a strange time to be calling...
Max, the cab driver!
Thanks for everything, Max. Wow...
Yes, you could. I think you need it more than I do. It'll help. I promise.
No, no way, I couldn't take that...
Dozen times a day.
How often you go?
Soon. But I take little ones all the time. Comoros Islands in the Indian Ocean.
When was the last time you took one?
Not in a cab... I mean a disconnection...get your head straight...you know, get it together...
Just had one.
You need a vacation.
Like you, I'm good at it. But at this exact moment in time...like I gotta sumo wrestler on my shoulders until tomorrow morning.
But not now?
Most of the time.
You never answered my question. You like what you do?
Not quite. He did defense. I'm a prosecutor...
...Bottega. Guy gets in my cab wearing a catcher's mask, I think he's a ballplayer. You? Definitely Clarence Darrow.
Sure. I'm starting an 800 hotline. Caught part of your phone call. And even if I hadn't, there's the dark pinstripe, Armani, elegant, not too hip, which rules out advertising, plus a top-of-the-line briefcase that you live out of, looks like Bottega...
You like being a lawyer?
This? Temporary. To pay the bills and save. I got plans...
You're an anomaly in today's world, Max. You're good at what you do, so you must take pride in it...?
There were two of us. I had the other guy killed. Don't need the competition...
No? How many cabbies get you into an argument to save you money?
It's no big deal.
Why'd you do that? Don't tell me you're a gentleman, Max. I thought chivalry was dead as a necessary consequence of gender politics...
Keep it. Go wild. Have a party.
Different instrument altogether. You know, if you'd only listened to me, we'd be bogged down in traffic right now, and you could have made yourself an extra five bucks.
Could'a fooled me, the way you were hollering into that cell phone.
Violin. I never had the lungs for wind instruments.
Let me guess. Clarinet?
I used to play this piece back in high school.
You like Bach?
No. You were right, I was wrong... ...Max.
No. I got lucky with the lights.
Go ahead, say it.
You got a deal.
The ride is free.
We taking bets? What if you're wrong?
But Bowery's fine, if that's what you want.
First Friday of the month? Linens. Roll right off the trucks. They're in and out in twenty minutes... ...which means they left fifteen minutes ago. Traffic will be smooth.
Sixth, you got delivery trucks blocking traffic at Herald Square. Look, I make this trip all the time.
The Bowery, you gotta deal with runoff from two bridges.
Sixth is a parking lot north of 23rd this time of day.
Sixth is faster.
I'll take Sixth. It's faster.
Park Avenue and East 2nd. Take Centre to Canal, up the Bowery, Cooper and Third, left on 41st, come around on Park.
Hi ya' doin'? Where to?
You sure? You look pretty shaky...
You dizzy? You want to sit down?
Save me the grief. Step out of the car, sir, and open the trunk.
Come on, it's been a long, shitty day. How about a break? I'll call a tow truck myself, I swear. I won't budge from this spot.
This vehicle's not safe to drive. We're gonna have to impound it. Get you towed. Step away from the vehicle and pop the trunk. I'm sorry, sir, you'll have to find another cab.
I was heading back to my garage. It's on the way.
You still carrying passengers?
Comin' over Coldwater. Goddamn deer jumps out in front of me. You believe that?
This your current address?
Then let's have it.
I know the answer. I know all there is to know about Louis.
It's simple. What was your pal Louis' first musical instrument?
Lay it on me.
One more thing. If by some chance I get this wrong...tell Dmitri I'm sorry.
I never lie. Ask Max. Max, have I lied yet?
How do I know you'll keep your word?
Jazz question. What other kind is there? You get it right, we roll with it. You disappear. Tonight. You don't go home, you don't pack a bag, you just leave town...and nobody, I mean nobody, ever hears from you or sees you again.
What kind of question?
I am a nice guy, Daniel. With a job to do. You know how it is.
And here I was thinking you were such a nice guy.
You know Dmitri?
The crowd was most kind. I was born in 1945, but my life began the night of July 22, 1964. That was the moment of my conception. Right here in this very room.
The crowd had to dig it.
Most vividly. "St. Louis Blues," "Potato Head Blues," "Sleepy Time Down South..." ...then Pops laid some "Cornet Chop Suey" on me, and left me in the dust like a whipped dog.
Remember what you played?
Unbelievable... ...you hearing this? Unbelievable.
Fella owned this place back then, Dix Dwyer, he let slip to Louis that I played. So Pops, he just waves me right up. My heart about stopped. But I got up there all the same, and we played for nearly twenty minutes.
Get outta here! You and Louis?
Oh, my, yes.
Did better'n that.
You heard Armstrong play live. I've never been this jealous. You get to talk to him?
Like Winton Marsalis says, it was pure, spiritual essence. Louis was playing. God was smiling.
Was it great? Better than great, it had to be...
He'd come over from Queens to do the Ed Sullivan show. After, he decides to come on up to Harlem and hang with the common folk. That's how he was, you see. Never forgot where he came from. Money and fame an' all that? Meant nothin', long as he could blow that horn. So before you it, he's up on that stage, doin' his thing.
Right through those doors. The man himself.
You're kidding me.
...I was just a young cat back then, about nineteen, bussin' tables in this very place. Didn't pay but shit, but that wasn't the point. Being around the music, that was the thing. And I was. Take this one night...July 22, 1964...who walks in? Mr. Louis Armstrong.
By the way. Daniel said he was sorry.
Hell, make it fifty. Same goes for any business we have in the future.
As a token of my appreciation for your understanding in this matter, I'd like to offer you a discount for my services tonight. Twenty five percent.
Wouldn't dream of it.
Vincent. Do not cross me.
In fifteen years, I have never left a customer unsatisfied.
Can you finish on schedule?
The fat man on Cherry Street. The other fat man, Mr. Bulldozer. The trumpet player. That leaves two.
Tell me. Has Black Peter already crossed off a few bad children?
You think I wanted to come here tonight? You think I'm that stupid? Sometimes shit happens, you gotta roll with it.
You tell me. I had to toss the list in the river. I was protecting your sorry, long-winded ass. So why don't you show a little courtesy?
I picked up a tail.
I said. Get the gun. Out. Of my fucking <u>face.</u> Before I wrap it in a blintz and feed it to you.
What? What did you say?
I think... ...I think you should get this gun out of my fucking face.
Tell me Vincent. Tell me what you think.
Neither do I. But my children, they're still young. Do you know who they like even more than jolly old Saint Nicholas? His helper, Black Peter. An old Russian fairy tale tells of how Santa got so busy looking after all the good kids, he had to hire a helper to punish all the bad kids. That was Black Peter's job. He was given the list of all the bad children, and he would visit them in their homes late at night. And if he caught them not saying their prayers, he would leave a bundle of wooden switches outside their door. That was a warning. If they continued to misbehave, he would swoop down and take the children away. And they would never be seen again.
Can't say that I do.
Tell me, Vincent. Do you believe in Santa Claus?
I see. That was an important list, wouldn't you say? The people on that list are being subpoenaed tomorrow by a federal judge. And you "lost" it?
Take him down. Save Richard Yip, our witness...
What are you gonna do?
I don't know...
Lemme tell you something. Vincent and a few other guys like him are fucking ghosts. Nobody even know what he looked like until now...
No. Your cabbie is floating down a storm drain or stuffed in the trunk of a cab.
...so, his description of Max the cabdriver matches the guy who walked out of Villa Rodeo. That guy? That guy is a cabbie. And you're telling me this cabbie walks into a phone booth and emerges as a meat eater, assassin with heavy trigger time? What's he do, squeeze 'em in between fares?
...got off the phone with his dispatcher. What an asshole. Cabbie's name is Max Rilke, been driving that cab for ten years...
Can you fax me his picture? His license or something? What do you mean you don't have that there? Anybody else in the cab?
Advance team, two men, stick to that goddamn cab, stay in radio contact, the rest of us follow in the van. Nobody moves until the entire team's in place...
...Petrov and Cicerno for sure...
...goddamn it, you telling me this motherfucker's whacked three of our witnesses tonight...
Pretty quiet down there. A cab just pulled up, aside from that...
Something going on?
This isn't our goddamn game!
...if they're wrong?!
Not our call, Phil.
What if they're wrong?
Detective Sergeant Phil Heller.
Captain Walt Muldoon, NYPD.
Pick me up in five minutes.
Something big's going down, and I'm betting the Feds don't know about it. You gotta get us in there.
Jesus. Two in one night?
Joey Cicerno. Dear friend and associate of my missing snitch, Ivan Petrov. Both of whom were in bed with Dmitri.
...yeah, I'm still at Bellevue. The John Doe didn't pan out, but you'll never guess who's lying up in the meat locker.
Cabbie had no criminal record, no history of mental illness. Suddenly, he just wigs out and pops three people, then himself? Plus the victims weren't random solid citizens. They were all lowlives. Wiseguys. I've always wondered if there was someone else in the cab.
I never bought that.
So? It was a random thing.
They found him dead in his own cab down by the Port Authority.
Oh, right. The guy flipped out or something? Killed some people, then put a gun to his own head?
Cabbie drove around all night. Three people got killed.
Remember that thing a few years back? That thing with the cab?
He could'a been depressed. It still doesn't tell me homicide.
There was a car here, you can see where the glass came down all around it. Ivan flew out the window and went bam.
What homicide? Phil. Where's a body? Look. All we got is glass...
Oh, we working for the Feds now? If my snitch flew out a window, he's got Dmitri's handprints on his ass. That makes it homicide, that makes it ours.
Dmitri <u>Gusunov?</u> What the fuck, why? Forget about Dimitri, Feds are all over him. They're a heartbeat away from taking him down. Word's gone out, they don't want us anywhere near him...
Months now. He's been feeding me information on Dmitri.
You guys been holding hands?
Ivan Petrov. Supposed to meet me for dinner, never shows up. I come here, find this.
...this snitch of yours, what's his name, Ivan?
I'm in town for a short time.
What's your name?
Quite an achievement...
Of course I'm proud. You know he started with nothing? Look at him today. Playing concerts.
I'm sure you're very proud of Max.
Max never had many friends. So much with the piano. Always keeping to himself, it's unhealthy...
Client? I like to think of myself as more of a friend. A mentor.
Tell me about it.
Tell my son. You have to hold a gun to his head to get him to come see me.
And you came all the way down here to see me?
I was with Max when he got the call.
Oh, call me Ida. To what do we owe the pleasure?
Happy to meet you, Mrs. Rilke.
No harm done, ma'am.
Why didn't you tell me we had company? And what's your name?
Vincent. It was nice to meet you. Visit again?
I came to see you, you look fine. We gotta go.
Yesss, you are. He's artistic.
I'm standing right here.
What's he sayin'?
I'm...in...the...room, here. Don't talk about me like I'm not in the room.
Mom, Vincent. Vincent, my mother, Ida Rilke.
You paid for my flowers? They're beautiful. Max, you gonna introduce us?
He paid for 'em.
By worrying about you spending money on foolish things? So I can watch them wilt?
You're gonna cheer up.
What am I gonna do with flowers?
I brought you flowers.
You couldn't pick up a phone? I'm lying here, wondering if something horrible happened...
I got caught up at work.
I've been calling and calling.
...show me the wallet, man, get your ass up, <u>up</u>...
...oh God, don't shoot me...
<u>My hands are taped to the fucking </u> <u>steering wheel!</u>
I'll fuck you up, you don't hand it over.
You're kidding me.
I got my, my hands taped to the steering wheel here, there's this guy, he taped me in the car, he's back there somewhere.
Oh. Oh, thank God, hey! Hey, guys, hey, help me out here!
Hang on. Carefully...
Nothin'! Aside from Max's mother driving me crazy, I'm dancin' on a rainbow! Get him on the line, please.
We're gay lovers, what's it to you?
What are you guys, taking an all-night tour?
Same fare you talked to last time. The U.S. Attorney...
Who is this?
You hassling my driver again?
Jesus, what is with this guy?
Max? Maaax. Pick up, dipshit.
Tell it to Max. Tell him he's an asshole.
I was just tryin' to...to...
How am I supposed to not get excited, listening to you trying to extort your employee, you sarcastic prick?
Let's not get excited, sir.
Vincent <u>Farrell</u>, Assistant U.S. Attorney. A passenger in this taxicab, and I'm reporting you to the DMV...
Who the hell is this?
He's not paying you one cent!
What happens if you don't?
I know you're out there! Answer the goddamn call!
Where you been the last two hours? Your mother's been calling every ten minutes whining about how you didn't show up.
I give a shit whose fault it was, you're payin'!
It got crashed! I didn't...
<u>So?</u> Aside from I hate talking to cops, they tell me you crashed the shit out of it.
I just got off the phone with the cops. They called to check you brought the cab in...
Uh, yeah? Lenny? It's me.
Max! Dammit! <u>Answer!</u>
He'll keep calling.
...well, last I checked, you were <u>sleeping</u> with me, so unless you wanna start fucking the guy soon, I'd suggest an attitude shift...
...what do you want me to do, punch him out? I have to work with him...
...oh, bullshit! He was intruding on my space, he was demeaning me personally, he was patronizing...
...I'm sorry, I don't see it that way...
...everything is not about me, don't make me the villain here. That asshole was out of line, and you goddamn well know it...
...why is everything always about you...
Let her go.
Was your seatbelt fastened, honey?
Well. That was brilliant.
What are you gonna do, pull the trigger? Kill us? Go ahead, man! <u>Shoot</u>...my ass.
Slow the hell down!
But you know what? Nothing matters, anyway. We are insignificant out here in the big nowhere, say the badass sociopath in my backseat. Right? Yeah. That's one thing I've got to thank you for, bro. And I never saw it that way...
You're going too fast.
I should have done that. Fixed it and more. Get out from under what I been under...
'Cause I never got it straightened up; made the push, made the moves...
...pie in the sky? "Someday my dream'll come..." But one night you'll wake up and realize suddenly you're old. It hasn't happened. It never will. Life just flipped on you. Tomorrow became yesterday. Then you'll bullshit yourself it was never gonna happen, anyway, and push it back in memory...and anesthetize yourself in a Barcalounger with daytime TV for the rest of your life... Don't talk to me about murder. You're <u>do-in</u>' yourself...in this yellow prison with steel-belted radials. Clocking in and out everyday...
None of your business.
Look in the mirror. ...piss-ant paper towels...a bottle of 409...saving up for goin' to the Comoros. How much you got saved?
Answer the question.
...all the cabbies in LA, I pull Max, the man with X-ray vision...
Man, if someone had a gun to your head and said: "You gotta tell me what's goin' on with that person over there or I'll kill you"...they'd have to kill you... 'Cause you don't have a clue for...or about...anyone... To be like that, I don't think you, you have any of that for your own life... Do you believe you're entitled or at least expect to draw breath in the a.m.? Open your eyes in the morning? I don't think you do...I don't think so... I think you are way <u>low</u>...like in your estimation. In your estimation of yourself. So how'd you get that way...?
What happened to you?
Get with it. Get over it. ...millions of galaxies of hundreds of millions of stars and a speck on one in a blink...that's us. Lost in space. The universe doesn't care. The cop, you, me? Who notices?
Then what are you?
That's the "why." That's the why? There is no reason. No good reason; no bad reason. To live or to die.
That's the reason?
How do I know? But, they all got that "witnesses for the prosecution" look to me. Probably some major federal indictment against somebody who majorly does not want to get indicted... I dunno.
What'd they do?
And you believe me...?
That's what you said...
<u>I'm</u> full of shit? You're a monument of bullshit. You even bullshitted yourself all I am, is taking out the garbage. Bad guys killing bad guys...
You're full of shit.
You're too good. We're in this together. Fates intertwined. Cosmic coincidence and all that crap...
Whyn't you kill me and find another cab.
There you go...!
How are you at math? I was hired for five hits. I did four.
What's at Union Station?
Head towards Union Station.
It's what I do for a living.
Yeah, so, what's wrong with that?
No, not just that.
I shoulda saved him 'cause he <u>believed</u> you?
That cop! Why'd you have to do that? You couldn't wound him? The guy had a family, maybe, parents, kids who gotta grow up without a dad, he was probably a good guy; and he believed me...
You had to kill Heller?!
Good. Blood, urine and death get to you? Try deep breathing. Or remember we all die anyway...
It's not what you owe <u>me.</u> Time is so fleeting. One day it's gone. You make it out of this alive, Max, you really should call her. That's what I think.
I only owe you a ride, Vincent.
What holds you back, Max? Tell me. Why does life scare you so much?
I don't know.
Your lady friend. The one who gave you her business card. Think she was just being polite?
Would you have called her?
You do impress me, Max. That you do.
Tribeca, near the waterfront, northeast corner. Twelve minutes.
Washington and Holt. Dance club called "Fever." Know it?
Makes two of us.
Damn, Max. I'm impressed. Really. I would have bet good money you wouldn't walk out of there.
You tell me to start a union, I'm blowing your head off. Quit stalling and get out of the cab.
Paid sick leave?
You get benefits?
Fifteen years, although I prefer the term "assassin."
In case he asks.
How long have you been a hit man?
We've both run out of options. If it helps, take comfort in knowing you never had a choice.
Vincent. Don't make me do this. Don't make me get people killed.
That's jazz, my friend. You said it yourself. So don't tell me you don't know how to play between the notes.
I...I wasn't thinking. I just did it.
Max. You threw my briefcase in the river. You've got balls bigger than Toledo.
No. No way. I can't do this.
When he finds out you tossed his list? I would.
He's gonna <u>shoot</u> me?
No client has ever seen my face, and I intend to keep it that way. Besides, if he decides to put a bullet in my head, I don't wanna be there for it.
Why me? Why don't <u>you</u> do it?
You're gonna be me. You're gonna go in, and you're gonna get the info on the remaining two hits.
I don't get it.
The man who hired me for this contract.
Our friends in Little Russia. Go in and ask for a man named Dmitri.
In case <u>who</u> checks?
I'll just hold onto it for you. In case they check.
Gimme your wallet.
Good excuse. How many others you got?
Doesn't cover everything.
What, no insurance?
See, I've got bills. My mother's been dying of the same disease since I was a kid.
Well, this big stake's got to be big by now. When you leaving?
I told you I don't like to talk about it.
Yeah? Like what? Limos?
I've always been good. Ever since I started. Gave up piano. Easy money. I'm putting a stake together, get something started. Go figure it all out...
What do <u>you</u> call it? Ten years doesn't sound temporary to me. I should have known it was bullshit, you're too good at what you do.
It's not bullshit.
Don't be. I never saw him after I was 15. Went into the military early. So all this talk about "my job's temporary, I got big plans," it's all bullshit.
I killed him. When I was 15. He was my first. Nah, wishful thinking. Liver cancer.
He hated everything I did. Hated me. Got drunk and beat the shit out of me, daily...
Yeah? What happened?
It's cause they don't like their lives, so they project their patterns of negative behavior onto you... I had a father like that.
Fuck! Nothing's ever goddamn good enough! It's always been that way.
Maybe so. Maybe she hears what you tell her.
She hears what she wants to hear, okay?
Hey, I'm not the one who's been lying to my mother.
What the fuck was <u>that?</u>
You'd do her a favor.
You take one more step, I'll kill her.
Oh, I'm captivated.
Mom, Vincent's not interested.
There's no way I'm taking you to see my mother!
Guy with a routine goes and breaks it? Provokes attention. That's bad. And that's not good...
What difference does it make?
You go every night?
She's in the hospital.
Show up for <u>what?</u>
Tell her I can't see her tonight, okay?
Show up for what?
Sure? Like you didn't play him? String him along? If he had gotten the answer right, would you have let him go?
Teach him how to talk back, suddenly he can't stop. I'm not playing.
I'm collateral anyway, so just fucking do it and stop making me a part of this!
Pull your head out of your ass. Get your thinking straight. You wanna die?
<u>I don't wanna know you!</u>
Don't even think you're walking away from me.
Leave me alone.
Max? What are you doing?
I'm done. Find another cab.
What you mean, no?
Jazz? That's funny, coming from you. Okay, some jazz for the jazz man. How's this? I'll ask a question.
You're the one who keeps talking about going with the flow. You like the man, you like the way he plays. How about a little jazz, huh?
You mind? I'm working here.
Let him go, Vincent.
That's the point. You play <u>between</u> the notes, you dance <u>around</u> the structure, you improvise. Some people know where they're going to be ten years from now. Same job, same neighbors, same shit over and over. That's not living. That's dying a little every day. Not me, pal. It's not knowing what's around the corner that makes like worth living. That's jazz. That guy up there, he knows what I'm talking about. Hell, it's the same thing <u>he's</u> talking about, if you just open your ears. You can hear it in the conversation he's having with that trumpet...
I'm not catching a melody.
Damn right. Instinct, man. If you think too much, it doesn't work. Just listen...
That what we're doing? Flowing?
God, are you always this prosaic? You don't learn jazz, it's not something you're <u>taught.</u> It's like breathing, like life. Like us, tonight, taking what comes and going with the flow.
I never learned jazz.
...see now, this has got a little post- war flavor, a little Miles thing happening. Awesome. What do you think?
Friend of mine told me about this great place in South Central. Says it's like the birthplace of West Coast bebop. Bird. Dexter Gordon. Thelonious Monk. Chet Baker. I'll buy you a drink. Expand your horizons...
I listen to classical.
But, hey, some good news. This last one put me way ahead of schedule. We've actually got some time to kill. Jazz? You like jazz?
Am I collateral?
People in the wrong place at the wrong time. Draws attention, which is something you avoid in my line of work. And for <u>you?</u> You attract attention, you're gonna get people killed who don't need to be.
I don't understand...
I had no idea these cabs came equipped with emergency strobes. Where's the button? Under the dash?
Next time you pull any shit, I'm gonna kick your fat ass.
Tell him next time he pulls any shit, you're gonna kick his fat ass.
Lenny? You're an asshole.
No you don't.
I need the job.
I can't do that. He's the Man. He'll fire my ass.
Don't take that. Tell him to shut the fuck up.
It was an accident. I'm not liable.
It was an accident. You're not liable. Tell him.
Lenny, my dispatcher.
Because I have a gun and I say so.
Hands on the wheel. Ten and two o'clock, like they taught you in driver's ed.
I'll deal with it. I will, I will...
That one's probably married. Think of his kids. His wife's pregnant...
Good luck. You think they got families?
I'll talk to them, I'll talk to them.
I can't believe this.
Then don't let me get cornered, Max. You don't have the trunk space.
Please. Don't do anything.
You're a cabby. Like talk yourself out of a ticket?
Get rid of 'em.
Yeah, like that... But, anyway, nobody gets out of this alive. Even if we quit smoking and cut out red meat. Everybody dies.
Oh, it's okay, then. 'Cause you're just taking out the garbage...
You don't know the guy in the trunk, either. If it makes you feel better, he was a villain involved in a Continuing Criminal Enterprise.
I don't know any Rwandans.
Tens of thousands killed before sundown. Nobody's killed that fast since Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Did you bat an eye, Max? Join Amnesty International? No. I off one Angeleno, you throw a hissy fit...
Rwanda-Burundi. Central Africa.
What do you care? Ever hear of Rwanda?
Who was he?
I should only kill people after I get to know 'em? Six billion people on the planet, you're getting bent out of shape 'cause of one fat guy?
How can you kill him like that?
Nothing. I only met him the one time.
What'd he do to you?
I didn't throw him, he fell.
I Ching? You threw a man out a window!
Chopin prelude. Stodgy, but nice. Here's the deal. I didn't want you involved in this. Still breathing? But now that you are, we have to make the best of it, Max. Improvise. Life is that way. Adapt to your environment. Survive. Darwin. "Shit happens." The I Ching. Whatever. Roll with it.
What else calms you down? Candy? Cigarettes? Sex? Breathe.
Are you breathing?
You don't understand. I mean it. Really. I'm not up for this...
Tonight it is.
Listen. I'm not trying to piss you off, see? Okay? I can't drive you around so you can murder folks.
They're <u>somebody's</u> friends... You drive a cab. I kill people. We both do our jobs right, you might survive the night and come out four hundred bucks ahead.
You said you were visiting friends!
I told you we had other stops to make tonight.
Oh. Oh, no. You're kidding. We...
How long, you figure?
58th and Central. You know it?
It's a mess.
What are you doing?
I think so.
Adrenaline's wearing off. You get shaky after. It's not uncommon. Deep breathing helps.
Try some deep breathing.
Okay, try it now.
I'm making <u>you</u> nervous. I'm the one with a schedule.
The thingy next to it has nothing to do with the starter motor...
How about the thingy next to it?
I tried it.
What about that?
It's not me, it's the engine! A fat guy fell on it from six floors up!
Try harder. I'm gonna count to three. One...
Yes! I'm trying, I swear!
You listening to me?
It's not me.
Max. May we leave the scene of the crime now, please.
...and you promise you'll never tell anybody about this, right? Get in the fucking car.
Uh, look...why don't you just take the car...
It's a spasm! Jesus, Max, don't be such a girl...
His hand moved! His goddamn hand twitched!
It's just a dead guy. On three, ready? Uno. Dos. Three.
I don't think I can do this.
I'm gonna roll him off the hood. Always lift with your legs...
Did I stutter? The trunk. Unless you want him riding up front with you...but given hygiene and his sphincters have let go...
You were going to drive me around. Drop me at LAX. Never be the wiser. But El Gordo missed the elevator. So we go to Plan B. Pop the trunk.
Good. Help me out here.
No. You say you're cool.
You cool, Max? Say "I'm cool."
No-no, I-I shot him. The bullets and the fall killed him.
You - you killed him?
No shit. Since he has two .45s double- tapped through the sternum and fell six floors onto his head...
I think he's dead.
Yeah, yeah. Shit, man. Guy fell on my motherfucking cab.
You always stutter?
He fell on my cab! From up th-th-there.
Max? I'm Vincent.
We have a deal. What's your name?
I'll make it an even five hundred. Plus an extra hundred if you get me to LAX on time.
Regulations? These guys don't even give you sick leave. How much you pull down on a good night?
I'm not a hire car. It's against regs?
Bullshit. You probably know the light schedules, too. Listen, I'm in town tonight on a closing. Five stops, one night. I gotta catch a six a.m. flight. I got five stops to make, see some friends, collect some signatures. Why don't you hang with me?
Yeah. Lucky with the lights.
Twenty-four minutes! Man, you're hot...
None taken. There are talkers and doers. I like doers.
I don't talk about it, you know... No offense.
Twelve years. But I'm working on other stuff...
Oh? How long you been doing this?
Last thing I need is a reason to keep hacking. This job's a fill-in.
You should start a union.
It's not that kind of job.
Yeah. Retirement? Paid sick leave?
You mean like benefits?
You on some kind of work plan?
People are more relaxed. Less stress, less traffic, better tips.
You prefer nights?
Yeah. I share it with the dayshift guy.
You know, this is the cleanest cab I've ever been in. This your regular ride?
I see your point.
You share it with over three million people every day. You know that's the population of New Zealand? What's Manhattan, thirteen miles long? That's a lot of misery crammed into thirteen miles. Read about this one guy. Gets on the subway and dies. Six hours he's riding around before anybody notices. Think about that. Here's this corpse doing laps around Manhattan courtesy of the New York transit system, people getting on and off, sitting next to him, and still nobody catches on. Three million. That's too damn many people.
Third, but I still can't tell uptown from downtown. Tell the truth, whenever I'm here, I can't wait to leave. Place gets to me. Too loud, too fast...too much. You like it here?
First time in New York?
Mind if I time you? What do I get if you're wrong? A free ride?
Two minutes to get on Broadway. They're doing some roadwork around the bridge. Eleven to get downtown. Four to the Lower East Side. Six to clear the roadwork. One minute margin for error. My math says twenty-four.
Twenty-four? Not twenty-five? Or twenty-three?
How long you think this'll take?
Yeah, yeah, sorry...
Uh, let's go to... Hello...?
All I know is, they said to send you and the body to the basement.
Any special reason?
The F.B.I., the C.I.A. You name the initials and they're down there.
They said send you downstairs.
Guy came in with a gunshot wound, but he died of a heart attack. Go figure.
Just drop me off.
Look, I'm sorry --
Drop me off here!
I was only going one way.
You turned up a one way street!
The guy came right at us!
Are you crazy?!
I, uh, I have some problems.
Why the hell not?
I never told her.
I love her so bad. She just... wrecks me. I would die for her.
She must be some girl.
Aren't you listening, man? Love gives you wings.
But you'll die. You'll squash yourself. What's the point?
Geronimo. When you're really in love, you'll jump. Off the top of the Empire State. Screaming 'Geronimo' the whole way down.
Love gives you wings. It makes you fly. I don't even call it love. I call it Geronimo.
I live on tips, so don't be offended, but you're a liar. I saw you kiss. Admit it, this is the street where love lives.
Love? Love's just a pretty way of saying, 'I want to sleep with you'. Love is bullshit.
The sound of love.
Shut the hell up.
Flip. You're the closest thing I got to a friend around here. Tell me something. You think I'm crazy?
Sure was. Pounded the V.C. for this Greek cat named Ari Onasis.
Flip was a hero in Vietnam.
Saved you last night's, too.
Sorry, Flip. Got sidetracked.
<u>Jerry</u>? You didn't show last night. First time ever. Had me worried, boy.
I gotta go, Flip. Thanks.
Sure. And the two of 'em used my legs for a wishbone. Nearly snapped me in half.
You know, Flip, Vietnam War was fought because of a bet Howard Hughes lost to Aristotle Onasis.
Mekong, my friend, Mekong.
Tell you what. Reminds me of life in the Delta.
Water mains usually go in the winter. It's August 1st.
What're you thinking, Jerry?
Now she tells me.
I love you, too.
Don't know, but he looks a lot more like Rosie O'Donnel than Ben Franklin.
You think it's a conspiracy?
They changed Franklin's portrait.
Top pocket... Go on.
You've been my best friend for years and I didn't even know you were out there.
I can't promise you anything.
Don't die on me, Jerry. Okay?
Don't do this.
It's up. Love gives you wings. You can fly away from here.
Geronimo is down.
Get up there and we'll get it back down here for me. <u>Now</u>.
What about you?
Get in. I'll pull you up to the fourth floor.
I spent two years here. This used to bring the med-cart. Demerol. Phenobarb. It's Jacob's Ladder.
How did you know?
Where are you?
You knew just what I was there for.
Without a love of my own.
Without a song in my heart.
You saw me standing alone ...
Blue moon... Blue moon...
It's okay. You... You thought I was bad.
They'll trace it.
You got to get out of here. My cell phone's on. Back in the truck.
I believe you.
Your father, he was dying. He was worried about you. He took your picture out to look at it. He called you his baby.
How'd you get the picture?
Because he believed me.
<u>Why not, Jerry</u>?
Walters was their fall guy. Blow up a building and blame a nut. Create fear. Don't you see? Your father wasn't trying to keep Walters in prison. He was looking into getting him out. He didn't believe the official story.
Why? What do these guys have to do with Ezekiel Walters?
He kept it in the side table in the front hallway. He showed me. I visited a few times. Then one of Jonas's guys visited. When I arrived, your dad was dying.
Someone else might call it stalking. My dad felt it. He started carrying a gun.
To Jonas. I didn't know that at the time. Didn't know who he was. But I knew inside, whoever he was, he'd send someone else. So I started watching your father. I wanted to keep him safe.
I don't know what it was. All I know is I had a gun in my hand, but when I saw you standing with him, I couldn't do it. If that's love, it's not so bad. I found a part of myself that day. I couldn't go back.
Love at first sight?
Can't give you the details because I can't remember. I went to court to kill him. At the Ezekiel Walters hearing. I was supposed to shoot him at the press conference. You were there. That's the first time I saw you.
Then tell me what happened.
Yeah. I know what it's like.
Jerry. Please. You don't understand. I have to know. It's all I think about. Do you have any idea what it's like not to know?
No...! But they trained me to. M.K. ULTRA. EX-CATCHER. America works. Get rid of the crazy people, the lone gunmen, and the system still works.
Did you kill my father?!
That's the last time you rode, isn't it? Do you think it was your fault? Is that why?
At a horse show.
Where were you the day he died?
I don't understand.
He gave it to me.
Then why did you have his picture in your safe deposit box?
Did you kill my father?
Is that what they told you?
Did you kill him?
You go. Send me a postcard.
How do you really know there's gold in Fort Knox? Just because they say so? We should go to Tennessee and demand to see it.
My father's house.
Reagan didn't die. If he had died, everybody would know what Johnny's middle name was.
John Hinkley. The guy who shot Reagan. He only had two names.
How come serial killers have two names, but lone gunman assassins have three. John <u>Wilkes</u> Booth. Mark <u>David</u> Chapman. Lee <u>Harvey</u> Oswald.
What about them?
What's in Connecticut?
Where are we going, Jerry?
After you. It's okay. I'm the one who left it here.
We're going to Queens?
There's a car following us. Probably another one flanking us the next street over.
What is it?
It would be a lot easier for me to show you instead of tell you. But first things first.
No. That wouldn't be fair. Where are we going, Jerry?
Are you okay? I wish I hadn't told you what I did. But I can't help the way I feel. You don't hold that against me, do you?
You look great.
I thought you -- Why -- Love ruins everything, doesn't it?
I don't. I know you wouldn't.
I would never hurt you, Liza. Think whatever you want, but don't think that.
Answer me. Was the first time you saw me the first time I saw you? Was it? You've been following me around. Do you see how that could be disconcerting to me? That's not love, Jerry. It's obsession. And it isn't normal and you can't expect me to respond to it and you can't expect me to feel the same way. Can you?
It's Geronimo. Love. It lets you see things. It gives you insight. I've loved you since the first time I saw you.
Now's not really the time to get into this --
Yesterday you were wondering about the wall. How it was possible.
Holes? I don't know what you're talking about.
You're wrong. Since I met you, I don't dream about holes anymore.
Don't do this to yourself. Jerry. You don't love me.
Yeah... Would you, I mean, could you love me then? If I was normal. Maybe?
If you were eating Kentucky Fried Chicken and drinking Coca-Cola again.
What if I reached a point where you didn't think I was crazy anymore? If I was normal.
Jerry, I --
Oh, Christ, here it comes. Look, I know you think I'm crazy. I don't think I am, but...
I like you, Jerry. A lot.
I know that. I'm just -- I'm nervous. I reached out and grabbed the first thing out there. I know they're song lyrics. And I know how I feel.
Those are song lyrics, Jerry.
I -- It's like, I resolve to call you up 1000 times a day. To ask you if you'll marry me in some old-fashioned way. Everything you do is magic.
I don't know what to say. I love you.
If that's what you want. Yes.
Okay, I will.
They don't break in the summer! Do you know what building is right over this spot? Harriman Tower. Their sub-basement was flooded! He didn't die in a pool. Call the coroner in Rhode Island! Ask if the water in his lungs was chlorinated!
A water main broke.
Do you watch the news? Read the paper. Last week, this whole place was underwater.
They're big details, Jerry.
I see the big picture and you stumble around in the details.
What was he doing down here? A billionaire waiting for the subway? Why not drown him in a bus? Why drown him at all? Why not shoot him? Is the hitman from the lost world of Atlantis? I mean, come on.
Right here. In the 7th Street subway station.
Nobody dies in Newport. They couldn't even kill Sunny von Bulow there. Harriman drowned, but it wasn't in Newport.
It said in the paper he drowned in a swimming pool. <u>In Newport</u>.
Right here in Manhattan.
His obituary was in every paper. But not one of them said he was murdered.
Sure. One of the richest men in America until he died a few days ago.
Latest casualty? Ernest Harriman. You heard of him?
And you think Group One is at war with Group Two.
So now they feed us terrorists. <u>To create fear</u>. How much do you think an airport security system goes for? Then multiply it by every airport in the country.
Cold War's over, Jerry.
There are all kinds of groups, all kinds of initials. But they're all part of two warring factions. One: families that have held wealth for centuries. They want one thing. Stability. Group Two: the boat rockers. Eisenhower's military industrial complex. They want instability. It's a trillion dollar a year business. When there isn't a hot war, they make a cold one.
Elaborate on 'they,' okay?
Henry Finch. That they monitor everything. That it was only a matter of time. And now four people are dead.
Maybe you better not try... I worked so hard to keep quiet. Like a mouse. I should have realized.
I'll be fine. Let's worry about Henry Finch. P.O. Box in St. Louis. He's the last on the list. I haven't been able to reach him yet.
Jesus... It's my fault. They drew a black line over me and now I'm passing it on. I'm passing it to you, too.
They're dead. Four out of five anyhow. All in the last 24 hours. One car accident, two heart attacks and a stroke.
You haven't been bothering them, have you?
Well, I've been tracking them down all morning.
I put an ad on a computer bulletin board. I log on at the library so I can't be traced.
Where'd you get your subscribers?
Never mind. You'd think I was making it up.
Did you see the van back there?
Fuck you. I know you're crazy, but fuck you.
Johnny Dancer, right? You don't ride him anymore, do you? Not since your dad died.
You watch me, don't you?
You run with your back to the picture. Like you were trying to get away. Once in awhile you sing along with music, but mostly you punish yourself.
Not this again.
He's why you punish yourself.
He was murdered.
How'd he die?
Please put it down.
Is he dead?
That was him.
Is this your dad?
I'll give you 100 bucks if you leave right now.
How is it possible?
So what's the question?
It made me feel like you could see inside of me. And I don't know how that's possible.
I didn't mean for you to see it. It's like looking in someone's diary and taking it out of context. Know what I mean?
It was that painting. The one on the wall.
Jerry, there's something I have to ask you. Actually about a hundred things, but we can make progress, if you answer one question. To my satisfaction.
You gave me an hour; now give me a day.
Just a guy trying to put out a fire.
Who are you, Jerry?
Never, but I've been practicing.
Has this happened to you before?
Was that who I thought it was?
Getting rid of my hub!
What are you doing?
I've never read it. I just -- Every time I see one I buy it. I don't know why exactly... Wanna hear my favorite part?
You have ten copies of the book, but you don't know who the main character is?
Never heard of him.
Holden Caulfield? <u>Catcher in the</u> <u>Rye</u>?
You're a Holden Caulfield fan.
You got a list?
Just five. It's the economy... You think maybe one of them is not who they seem?
Yeah... how many subscribers do you have?
Pretty scary, huh?
'On July 8, 1979, security forces under control of the Trilateral Commission abducted the fathers of all American Nobel Prize winners. The men, many of them octogenarians, were forced at gunpoint to ejaculate into small plastic bottles. The sperm collected is now under study in a laboratory beneath the headquarters of the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, California.'
Absolutely not. A good conspiracy is an unprovable conspiracy. If you can figure it out, they screwed it up.
Can you prove any of this?
Stone is their spokesman. You think if someone really had all that information and a national podium to shout it out from that they'd let him do it? Stone's a disinformation flunky. The face that he's alive says it all.
'The Space Shuttle's Seismic Secret'. 'The Oliver Stone-George Bush Connection'. Oliver Stone?
Here it is. <u>Conspiracy Theory</u> It just went out Tuesday. Third issue this year. I bet I struck a nerve. Pissed someone off.
Are these yours?
I've been reading up on it.
This would be it?
If my universe had a hub...
Um, coffee. If that's okay?
You want something to drink?
The whole kit and caboodle of 'em are British Intelligence agents. <u>Spies</u>. Jerry Garcia had a double- o rating. Just like James Bond.
You know why the Grateful Dead are always on tour?
Flesh wound. No big deal.
Believe you about what?
You wouldn't be sitting here if you didn't halfway believe me.
So I'm a little jumpy. Who wouldn't be?
I'm not sure. I think I figured something out. It must've been in my newsletter.
So why are they after you?
I have no idea.
Do they have a secret handshake?
Well that's the eye right there. <u>Money</u>. And all the power and misery it brings with it. It's a plot to take over the world. The Master Conspiracy. Can take a lifetime to pull off.
And look here. Cease fire in Chechenia. That's good for the banks who lent the government money, but bad for the guys selling them weapons. Listen to this, some gas company in Colorado. Their researchers have been blocked from testing a fuel additive. They've accused the E.P.A. of, quote, 'turning a blind <u>eye</u> to the future.'
What is it with you and the space program?
More about life on Mars. From a rock they <u>found</u> on the South Pole. Explain that one to me. But maybe we should go to Mars and find out? How much do you think that's going to cost?
Oh, well, maybe to the untrained eye. Hmm... Ahh... Ooooo...
Nothing scary there. Sorry.
Yeah. I think so.
You have the right to ask me certain personal questions?
Till today, I haven't believed a word. Now, I'm curious. Six months, eleven days. I'm going to give you one more hour to impress me. Where to?
Six months. Eleven days.
How long have we known each other, Jerry?
Nothing is easy.
See? Wasn't that a lot easier than squealing tires and knocking over trash cans?
That's how a man would do it. I'm not a man.
You mean I should speed up and try and lose them?
People more serious about their work. You know how to drive this thing or do you just like looking good in it?
As opposed to?
Crown Victoria. F.B.I. car. A legitimate tail.
Flat, wraparound headlights?
Change lanes. Then watch your rearview.
Uh uh, don't want <u>them</u> to see me.
Right. Sit up so I can see you.
If you're worried about the President, call and warn him about the Space Shuttle.
Oswald was an assassin. You're not an assassin, are you, Jerry?
Dead or alive, they'll stick me in there with Oswald. Another lunatic acting alone,
That's how long it takes to turn a hospital inside out. A lot of people are after you, Jerry.
What took so long? You were in there all day.
Figure of speech. Could we go?
Don't tell me you're naked back there.
Lucky guess... Um, I'd feel a lot less naked if we could get outta here.
I can't promise you anything.
Arf... You gotta help me.
He says a dog bit his nose.
<u>Heart attacks happen</u>.
You saved my life.
I won't be here when you get back, but I'll be in touch. And thanks.
I got to get downstairs. The C.I.A., they want to see your body.
You switched the charts; you tell me.
You expect me to believe what, that someone came in here last night. Gave that guy... something that stopped his heart?
It's okay. The guy traded bullets with some old man in a liquor store. He had it coming.
Sure. You switched the charts, didn't you?
People do have heart attacks.
Hey... I can't control it. It's just, something that happened.
I'll see you tomorrow.
Switch 'em. Or I'll be dead by morning. Don't want to be dead.
Switch the charts.
You were there, Jerry. Figure it out.
What's the charge?
You're the boss. Just don't make me repeat myself. I hate that.
Put down the gun and I'll take your statement. Okay?
It's a man without a nose you want, you dumb complicit sons of bitches! You've got to listen to me.
Yes! Don't let's get into this thing where I have to repeat myself!
You bit someone's nose off?
I bit the bastard's nose off.
Was waiting till I knew you better. Johnny Dancer, huh? Sounds like a racehorse.
Johnny Dancer. You've been in my office ten times. How come you never asked me about that picture before?
What was your horse's name?
You don't have to burst in here every time, Jerry. Just call and make an appointment.
I better get going.
You know, to be 'normal' and live in the 'real world,' to swallow Coca cola and eat Kentucky Fried Chicken, you have to be in a conspiracy <u>against yourself</u>. I can't lie to me, Liza. And the more I strip through the sham, the crazier I look to people like you. Can't you see that's what they're counting on? You want to go out sometime?
I think you're different.
You think I'm crazy.
I can't promise you anything.
You going to warn him?
Not exactly the kind of thing a Secret Service Agent can throw himself on top of.
<u>NASA</u> is going to kill the President of the United States with an earthquake.
He's cutting funding for NASA. The milk cow of the aerospace industry. We're talking billions. Motive enough?
The President's in Europe. Tomorrow he'll be in Turkey. Right along this fault line. They launched the space shuttle yesterday.
Well, I -- Jerry, the point. Get there. What does it have to do with the President?
So why do you keep the picture up? You wish you hadn't quit?
Not for years.
Do you still ride?
I still don't see what it has to do with the President.
Not testing. <u>Using</u>. Nukes are passe. This is the weapon of the future.
Testing some top secret seismic weapon.
Come on! Six major earthquakes in the last three years? The space shuttle in orbit for every one of them?
I don't see the connection.
Then I can't be hurt anymore.
Liza Sutton is dead.
You've never seen her run.
You shouldn't watch, Jerry. It's a moment without hope.
We've arranged for you to take the blame. Everyone knows how you've been harassing the poor girl.
Lysergic acid diethylamide... With a little kicker of my own. Surely it must be coming back to you by now?
Could you be a little more specific?
Who have you been talking to, Jerry? Who else knows what you know?
That's great. Good for you.
I'm a very patient man.
Yes you do, Jerry. Quite well.
Do I know you?
Alright. You can see her. But she can't see you.
Then screw you. I'll rot.
I don't know...
That's not what I mean. I want to see her.
We got someone watching her 24 hours a day. She --
I'll do it. On one condition. I want to make sure she's okay.
That's your option. Ours could be to keep you locked up for a very long time. In case you didn't know it, you're crazy.
I'm leaning toward no.
You made your decision yet?
Well, I don't know if --
I'm not a violent man, Mr. Lowry. Not by nature, anyhow. But if you hurt Liza in any way, I'll kill you. Does that seem honorable?
It seemed like a possibility. What about your intentions? Are they honorable?
You're here because you figured I might show up.
That's ironic. Because we're here to protect her from you.
You should think of me as Liza Sutton's guardian angel.
I'm not sure what you mean.
I like that. A gun to your head and you ask about your partner. He's okay. May have a headache for a few days. Are you here with honorable intentions?
You're welcome. Where's my partner?
I want this box rigged with a beacon!
It's okay. I'm game.
I don't understand.
In Jerry's safety deposit box.
You sound so sure.
Walters had nothing to do with your father's murder.
Not a man. Ezekiel Walters.
I know the story. A federal judge. He denied a man in prison an appeal for a new trial.
It was my father's. Kept it in his wallet. He was murdered --
You do recognize it then?
Where'd you get it?
So you'll believe what I tell you next. Because I need to find Jerry. And I don't think I can do that without you.
If this was a spy novel, your next words would be something like I now know too much to live. Why are you telling me all this?
Belief is immaterial. What's important is the truth... It's been my job to find Jerry. I'm very much responsible for him.
I don't believe you.
Jerry is dangerous. Jerry has killed --
I'm still listening.
Yes, that's right.
These things you're talking about. You did them to Jerry?
<u>My dog</u>. One I intend to put to sleep. Extrapolate from there.
And what did I say?
Jerry told me he bit your nose.
It was. It was.
Missionary? Penance? You talk about it like it was a religion.
Me? I was a minor missionary, a heretic really. But where else could a red-blooded American boy lie, cheat, steal and kill with the sanction and blessings of the All-Highs? Besides, now I'm trying to pay my penance.
If I had any idea what to charge you with or how to prove it, I'd arrest you right here.
As in 'resulting in death.' We pushed the envelope until it wasn't even an envelope anymore.
We experimented with hallucinogens. We used electro- shock to produce a vegetative state. We conducted terminal experiments in sensory deprivation.
I am impressed. We used the distinctive cover as a sort of mental flash card.
As in <u>Catcher in the Rye</u>?
M.K. ULTRA was terminated in 1973. But not the research. It was renamed. EX CATCHER.
Ask what you can do for your country. That kind of thing.
A vulgar pop term, but yes. Take an ordinary man and turn him into an assassin. That was our goal.
It was mind control. <u>Manchurian</u> <u>Candidate</u> kind of stuff, right?
Years ago, I worked for the C.I.A. in the M.K. ULTRA program. Are you familiar with it?
Truth'll set you free. I'm listening.
What I'm about to tell you is partially documented. The Freedom of Information Act saw to that. But much more of it isn't. For reasons which will soon be regrettably clear, I'm going to share -- secrets -- with you. Repeat any of it and you'll simply bestow the title of 'paranoid' upon yourself.
Fine. What the hell is going on?
If you're as impressed to see me as I am to see you, you're very impressed indeed. How's Jerry feeling this morning?
Re-educating trained killers in the ways of polite society. Making sure the men who've gone over the edge won't hurt anyone. That sort of thing.
Brain washing, mind control, that sort of thing?
We're very specialized.
I didn't know the C.I.A. had psychiatrists.
Only on the football field.
That's it. I went to Yale. I hope you won't hold that against me.
The truth shall make you free.
Veritas. Truth. What is it they say about truth?
A year ago I was leaving work late one night. Two guys tried to mug me. It was horrible. Jerry came out of nowhere. To my rescue. Then he started coming to see me. Could've been a storybook if he wasn't crazy. At first I did my beat to avoid him. But there's something inside Jerry and... Jerry made me see it. <u>He made me</u> <u>see him</u>. That make sense?
Jerry's visits to your office. Why do you tolerate them? Why him?
A charming term. Now, <u>why him</u>?
Honestly? I think he has a crush on me.
I'm sorry. What was the question again?
Here's a fresh one. Why you? Your colleague Mr. Wilson says Jerry won't speak to anyone else. That seems oddly possessive behavior to me.
You've asked me that one three times.
And you have no idea where he lives?
You already asked me that. Why do you insist on making me repeat myself?
So he thinks NASA is plotting to kill the President?
It was my dog. Let me ask you a question. How long have you been acquainted with Jerry?
And you feel bad for it?
You were going to ask about my nose. The poor animal is slated to be destroyed today.
A dog bit it.
Can I ask you something?
What do I look like to you? Switzerland?
Liza, settle a bet for us.
Too bad. Because I'm terrible at 'yes.'
I'm not that good at 'no,' Liza.
Look, you're a nice guy, but I'm not really dating right now.
Night after that?
Hmm, how about tomorrow night?
So, you doing anything tonight?
Go ahead, Miss Sutton.
Then this is a goddamn emergency.
Do you <u>have</u> an Agent Lowry in your New York office?
The office is closed for the evening. Is this an emergency?
I need to speak with an Agent Lowry.
Federal Bureau of Investigation.
What the hell does that mean?
Go to the northeast corner. Call a cab. Bring the pizza. Then there's a poem. Roses are red, violets are blue, if the Pope goes to Washington, I would, too.
I've had a lot of credentials flashed in my face, Liza. What I saw yesterday, I know not to ask questions. We're out. Shut off. Terminated. <u>Understood</u>?
We don't know who Jonas is. We don't know who it is we're cooperating with.
Dr. Jonas thought you might be inclined not to cooperate. Why is that?
I don't like it. Something's wrong.
It makes perfect sense. Field work is not our oeuvre.
This doesn't make sense.
I've been given a cease and desist on all matters relating to Jerry Fletcher. We're not to discuss him with the press, the N.Y.P.D., anyone. Building police are to arrest him on sight and we're to report any attempt he makes to contact you.
I don't know if you're the best lawyer I've got or a high school sophomore.
Tell him I'm on vacation. That I won't be back for two weeks.
Ah, your psychotic is here.
I don't think so.
That you come with me.
What do you suggest?
Don't go home. And don't go to work. Either one could be bad.
I'm going to find him. Because he'd find me.
No idea. Honest. What are you going to do?
Where do you think Jerry is?
Jonas builds assassins for a living. Several of whom may be in place already. We'd like to kill a few birds with one stone.
He's shown himself. Why haven't you arrested him or killed him or done whatever it is you do?
He's why I watch Jerry. Jerry's the bait for Jonas.
I'm, it really doesn't matter. Think C.I.A. and exponentiate. I'm a government employee and I've been watching Jerry for awhile.
Nothing. I was just making sure. So, who are you?
What gave me away?
You think we have time to fool around like this? Come on.
Who's the Deputy Director of the F.B.I.?
What do you mean?
I want to believe you, too.
Yeah, I do.
Do you believe me?
Go ahead. We'll be right down.
Can I talk to you a second?
Your call. Have a good night.
When I'm ready to compare notes, I'll let you know.
It's his show for now. Look, you want to get some dinner? Inter- Agency cooperation and all?
Wasn't my idea.
No. Not yet.
You're welcome! Spooks. So, you want to compare notes on this guy.
I was just thinking that.
That's the book Hinkley had on him when he shot Reagan.
I don't know. Didn't see him.
Which way did he go?
You don't understand --
Guy's a C.I.A. shrink. Here to I.D. Fletcher. They knew each other somehow.
While we walk. D.C. police want him for assault. Secret Service for counterfeiting and we're tracking him on a string of bank robberies. No one knows what the C.I.A. wants him for.
Tell me about it.
We're waiting for jurisdictional problems to be cleared up. This guy Fletcher's something else.
There is no abort procedure -- we don't know how we turned the damn thing on, let alone how to turn it off.
There's no plug to pull.
Pull the plug. Get her out of there.
We've lost contact.
We have benzel activation, repeat, we have benzel activation. Control to Arroway, you okay in there? Repeat, Control to Arroway, come back.
Anything happening in there, El?
I'm not sure. We have no launch protocol; the entry of the passenger is supposed to initiate activation.
I don't know. Ultimately their motives may be as incomprehensible as their technology.
You don't believe it to be... tell me something, Doctor. Why do you think they would go to all this trouble... bring you tens of thousands of light years, and then send you home without a shred of proof? Sort of bad form, wouldn't you say? What was their intent?
All the elements are there. A woman, orphaned young, under a great deal of stress. The failure of a project she's staked her self-worth and very sense of identity on -- induces a fantasy of reuniting with her 'father in heaven' as it were. Is it possible?
Is it possible...?
Dr. Arroway, do you think it's possible you had some kind of... delusional episode.
He died... ... in 1972.
... And this is how the extraterrestrial presented himself to you? As your father?
-- It's extremely unlikely that they had any idea what they were looking at.
-- Or 'you're our kind of people --'
It's a hoax. I knew it!
What in the hell...?
How is that possible? How could all that information be encoded in --
Hope there's a cartoon.
Okay, fine, they've got the primes -- but if you're right about there being another more significant transmission still to come --
Mike, because of the Earth's rotation we're only in line with Vega so many hours a day; the only way to get the whole message is to cooperate with other stations. If Dr. Arroway hadn't moved quickly we could have lost key elements.
Dr. Arroway, let me first say --
Michael Kitz, National Security Advisor.
Dr. Arroway --
So... there wasn't any clothes in the machine. She was just sitting there on the floor with her ear pressed up against the Maytag. Listening.
Last week, about 3 A.M., Fish -- Dr. Fisher -- was on a late shift, and he found her doing laundry.
Nothing. Okay. Some of us have been a little... not concerned, exactly, but...
Still settling in, really. Where's Dr. Arroway?
Glad to have you, David. How's the new office?
Now I remember why I went into theoretical work. Kent.
For giving me a chance, just for a moment, to feel what it must be like to be you.
Nothing. I guess I just wanted to thank you.
What would you have me say, David?
Ellie... we both know that if I was any kind of a man, I never would've entered this race. That I would have told the President straight out: Helen, Eleanor Arroway is naive and strident and an enormous pain in the ass... but she's got more courage and intelligence than the rest of us put together. That more then anyone else on the planet, she's earned this. And that she should be the one to go because she's the best we have. But that's not who I am. I like to think it's who I might've been if things had gone a different way; that I might have been worthy, really worthy of what I've been given... You do what you have to do. And in the end, as with everything, it comes down to power. And it isn't fair...
Good luck, David.
This... seemed best.
You aren't staying?
Maybe they are. Maybe this is all part of the package. The building of the machine has demanded international cooperation on an unprecedented scale. Maybe requiring us to come together in this way was, in effect, part of the plan.
They knew our level of development. If, as you say, they've done this many times they'd be well aware of the implications.
... I can't believe they wouldn't take something as basic as our biological needs into account...
... Two years is still a hell of a long time -- and as far as we can tell there aren't any provisions in the machine design for storing food, water, even air...
Excuse me, I'm late for a meeting.
As of three o'clock this afternoon. I submitted my resignation.
Ellie... you should know that I'm no longer the President's Science Advisor.
I'm asking for your help, David. I want to go. They'll need someone relatively young, unattached -- and probably a scientist. As the President's Science Advisor you have enormous weight... I'm asking if you'll support my candidacy.
I don't understand.
David... I know we've had our differences... but I've always thought of you as a fair man, even when we've disagreed -- and It's in that light I'm hoping you'll consider my request...
It'll just take a moment.
Actually I'm running late --
Do you have a minute -- ?
You were right, Ellie. You were right all along.
You mean --
We've cracked it. Lunacharsky found it.
What is it? What's happened?
Interesting analogy. And how guilty would we feel if we happened to destroy some microbes on a beach in Africa?
Ms. President, this is communist paranoia right out of War of the Worlds. There is no reason whatsoever to believe the ETIs intentions are hostile. We pose no threat to them -- it would be like us going out of our way to destroy microbes on a beach in Africa.
It's not a threat, Ellie, it's a fact -- if you're not careful, you may find yourself out in the cold very quickly. Play ball. Really. It's good advice.
Are you threatening me?
I want you to listen to me, carefully. The minute the implications of this message became clear, this stopped being simply a scientific matter and became a political one -- an extremely complex, extremely volatile one. There are forces at work here you don't understand; I can help you up to a point, but only up to a point.
I'm going to convert Mr. Science-is- the-root-of-all-evil? This is absurd, David. We have work to do here, I don't have time to play babysitter to the God Squad.
Apparently he's genuinely interested in science. This could be a chance to win him over.
The theological ramifications of all this are obvious; the President feels we need to include religious interests rather than alienate them. She's also named Palmer Joss as their liaison; he's requested a meeting with you.
... Arrangements also have to be made for the V.I.P.s coming in, mostly religious leaders...
Rotate 90 degrees counterclock wise.
Throw a gray scale on it; standard interpolation.
You must have checked the signal for polarization modulation already...
... could it be a nested code of some sort?
It's hardly yesterday; the signal's been traveling for over twenty-six years. As for why... I'm hoping your own expertise in decryption algorithms will help us find out -- to see if there's another message buried deeper in the signal.
If it's attention you want I'd say you've got it. Just one thing: Why Vega? Everyone's looked at Vega for years with no results, and now, yesterday, they start broadcasting primes. Why?
Mathematics is the only truly universal language, Senator. We think this may be a beacon -- an announcement to get our attention.
It was a worthy experiment -- worthy of you; I was wrong about that part. But it's over now.
Then why haven't you detected any signals? If, as you claim, there have been thousands, millions of advanced civilizations out there for millions of years then why hasn't one signal gotten through? It'll take a month or two for the paperwork to go through; you're welcome to stay until then.
Goddamnit, they are out there, David --
No... You're not. But the price has just gotten too high.
The difference being what -- that I refuse to adopt the standard line, that I don't care about the results of my work? Well, I do care. Of course any discovery has to be verifiable, of course it must be subject to all rigors of scientific method, but I refuse to go around pretending I'm some kind of dispassionate automaton when it's obvious to anyone with a brain I'm just not.
The point is, this isn't just scientific inquiry anymore -- it's turned into some kind of personal obsession.
I'm searching for patterns in the noise, that's all. Order in the chaos. I'm practicing listening --
Meaning I have to go defend a budget to the President and to Congress and you're out here listening to washing machines.
It's not like you've given me much choice.
You can't just pull the plug, David.
Ellie, I should have done this a long time ago, certainly before I left the N.S.F., but I wanted to give you every benefit of the doubt --
It's not enough having my search time systematically cut down -- you know I'm down to three hours a week now.
You know why I'm here.
Did I tell you we've expanded the search spectrum? We're including several other possible magic frequencies -- not just the hydrogen line anymore. I was trying to get inside their heads, y'know? And I started thinking, what other constants are there in the Universe besides hydrogen, and then suddenly it was so obvious -- transcendantals, right? So we've been trying variations of pi...
Now exactly. It's... complicated.
'President's Science Advisor' -- so what, you just spend all your time jetting around on Air Force One now...?
I'm surprised you even knew it was an election year.
Really? Congratulations, by the way.
Very well; since my appointment he's been made interim director.
Oh? How's he doing?
Peter sends his regards.
Then disagree but don't stand in my way!
What if you're wrong? No -- I'll grant you probabilities but as a scientist without all the evidence -- you can't deny the possibility -- and I believe even the remotest possibility of something this profoundly... profound is worth investigation -- and worth taking a few risks.
Two: There's nothing out there but noble gasses and carbon compounds and you'd be wasting your time.
And only two probabilities: One: there is intelligent life in the universe but they're so far away you'll never contact it in your lifetime --
Dr. Drumlin, we are talking about what could potentially be the most important discovery in the history of humanity. There are over four hundred billion stars out there --
I'm not. You're far too promising a scientist to waste your considerable gifts on this nonsense --
I'm willing to take that risk.
I'm sorry, Miss Arroway, not only is it too Speculative a subject for a doctoral dissertation, at this point in your career it'd be tantamount to suicide.
What's the status of the decryption effort?
Yes -- of course -- all I'm saying is, this message was written in the language of science -- mathematics -- and was clearly intended to be received by scientists. If it had been religious in nature it should have taken the form of a burning bush, or a booming voice from the sky...
Mr. Rank's organization represents the point of view of tens of millions of families, Dr. Arroway. Feel free to disagree, but there won't be any suppressing of opinions here today.
A transport. So are they coming or are we going?
... And while its function remains, for the moment, a mystery, my best guess is that it represents a transport of some kind.
How soon will you be able to decode it?
Because you cut it from the budget three years running.
It could be anything. The first volume of some Encyclopedia Galactica...
What does it say?
I don't know. Maybe there is a fourth layer in there somewhere, but if there is, I sure as hell can't find it.
How can that be?
We've repeated. A few minutes ago the message cycled back to page one.
Maybe it'll be at the end of the data when the message recycles.
There's no way of knowing. Without a key -- a primer, to help us, maybe never.
A third layer.
In ancient times when parchment was in short supply people would write over old writing... it was called a palimpsest.
Analyzing signal polarization shifts.
NORAD's not tracking any spacecraft in our vector including snoops; shuttle Endeavor's in sleep mode.
How's the spying tonight, guys?
I scanned it at Arecibo; negative results, always.
That can't be right; it's only twenty-six light years away.
Put it on speakers.
Hydrogen times pi... Got it. Strong sucker.
I'm not sure. You mind checking right ascension 18 hours, 34 minutes; declination plus 38 degrees 41 minutes?
Got a bogey, boss?
VB10's an M dwarf; Signa Draconis... too old.
Been there, done that, got the T-shirt.
It's incredibly rich. We've been cataloging it in frames or 'pages'; right now we're on 10,413.
I think we just hit the cosmic jackpot.
It's a civilian facility.
Can't we get rid of them?
It can't be coming from Vega, the system's too young.
Okay, let's just slow down. Pull up the starfield signal origin.
Thank you, Mr. Sensitive. I'm coming at this wrong... missing something... something...
You've only searched -- what is it, sixteen hundred stars without a peep? Try not to take it too personally.
Never seen the optical sky myself, but I hear it's nice too.
It's how I hear it. The display's just a little something I programmed for astronomers with the misfortune of sight.
This is how you see the sky?
Here, right around Centaurus A.
1919+21. Found a glitch in the timing; probably a starquake.
Kent, Kent for Chrissakes. You must be Eleanor.
Because I can't.
So why don't you admit what by your own standards must be the truth: that this experience simply didn't happen.
-- but I don't believe it to be the truth.
Thank you, Doctor. Now --
Is it possible. Yes. But --
Please answer the question, Doctor.
By our standards... yes.
In fact, by all the laws of physics we know what you claim to have experienced is simply impossible.
I don't have the figures in front of me, but yes, that sounds about right.
And current theory holds that to sustain the sort of wormholes you're talking about, even for a fraction of a second, would require more energy than our sun produces in a year, is that correct?
There is no direct evidence, no.
I don't have an official response, Michael. All I have are the same questions you have.
Is that your official response?
... I don't understand it. All I can think is that maybe because the video gear wasn't accounted for in the original plans it somehow violated the integrity of the design.
That's terrific, but there's one problem: we don't have the means to receive all the data on our own.
If at some later date the message proves harmless, we can discuss sharing it with the rest of the world, but until then --
Pardon me, but you can't do -- !
And a hundred mile airspace.
And a hundred mile airspace.
Colonel Jarrod, I'd like a twenty mile radio-silent perimeter put around this installation immediately.
You don't seem to understand that it's your interests I'm trying to protect -- !
-- which we'll also need the network's help to receive and decode!
You want to classify prime numbers?
I'm saying you might have consulted us; the contents of this message could be extremely sensitive...
This isn't a person to person call, Mr. Kitz. I don't really think the civilization sending the message intended it just for Americans.
I'll come right to the point, Doctor. Your sending this message all over the world may well be a breach of National Security.
Childhood is over, Ellie. It's time to grow up.
It's time to go home now.
Ellie... this is the way it's been done for billions of years...
Please -- if you... downloaded... everything about us you know the problems we face, the impact it could have -- it could make the difference --
No more stalling, Captain.
But you said you wanted to help -- don't you see what it would mean?
That isn't the way it works.
But -- other people from our planet should see what I've seen -- they should witness this for themselves.
Eventually you'll get here on your own. This was just the first step; in time you'll take another.
None taken... but ... do we get to come back? Others of my kind, I mean.
If we don't engineer a consistent causality it'll work itself out on its own, and that's almost always worse. Ellie, according to your physics none of this is possible. A lot of it you're simply not capable of understanding, not yet. No offense.
No! I mean... why so soon?
Now... you go home.
So. What happens now?
You always have been. We're all descendants of the same stars, Ellie. All made of the same primordial atoms.
... all those voices... you gather them all together. Millions of intelligences in one consciousness... and now we're a part of it.
The librarian... or the library...?
Am I one... or many?
Can you help us?
... life is unspeakably rare. So whenever we do find another civilization, especially one that's... struggling... We send a message. Sometimes we can offer help. Sometimes we can't. But we always try. Life is simply too precious not to.
You have your mother's hands... There are no tests, Ellie. We don't sit in judgment. Think of us more as... librarians. Curators of the Universe's rarest and most valuable creation...
So we passed some kind of test?
Not all. Some choose to stay at home and dream their dreams. Some never make it this far.
The scale... it's just... So all the civilizations you detect; they all end up coming here?
We don't know. Whoever they were, they were gone long before we ever got here.
Oh, we didn't build it. The transit system has been in place for billions of years; we're just its... caretakers.
And they all travel here through this wormhole subway system you built.
And those other docking ports I saw... I mean... there are others?
You contacted us. We were simply listening. We've been listening for millions of years.
Why did you contact us?
Small moves, Captain, small moves.
Can you show me?
Originally just another species like yourselves. Well, not like you at all actually, but...
So who -- what -- are you?
We thought this might make things a little easier.
But you're so... I mean how could you possibly...? When I was unconscious. You... downloaded... my thoughts, my memories, even... This beach. I've never been here but I remember... it's how I always imagined... Pensacola.
Am I artifact or dream? You might ask that about anything.
So. Are you an hallucination? Or are little gear trains and circuit boards under your skin?
That's my scientist.
You're not real. None of this is.
Dad... But tell me, how did... I mean how can...?
I'm sorry I couldn't be there for you, sweetheart.
I used... I used to dream you were alive... and then I'd wake up and lose you all over again.
Time to sleep now, Captain. But you can ask more questions in the morning, okay?
That's a beauty, Captain. Now get some sleep.
Okay, okay... there.
Mmm, that's a good one. Maybe his echo... Okay, no more stalling.
Could we hear God?
Big enough radio, I don't see why not.
Could we hear to the moon?
On that old shortwave? Maybe on a clear night. Come on now, under the covers.
Could we hear to China?
Just be yourself, Captain. Find out where he is.
But what do I say?
Talk to him.
Try again between the static and 'Hey Jude'; that's where they're hiding.
I can't move any smaller.
Small moves, Captain, small moves.
Can't. Doctor's orders. The low oxygen/zero gravity environment is the only thing keeping the cancer from eating me alive. It's all right -- I like it here. Ever try sex in zero-G?
Why don't you come back with me?
-- of Hadden Industries.
As each component was tested and shipped off to Texas a duplicate was maintained and assembled in Hokkaido -- for backup purposes, of course. We've been right behind you the entire time. You see my problem: I couldn't appear to control too large a percentage; my enemies wouldn't stand for it. So I simply made sure the Japanese consortium received the systems integration contract. Of course no one had to know the corporations involved were recently acquired, wholly-owned subsidiaries --
Mmm. Look closer.
The systems integration site.
Wouldn't you if you saw Hitler on TV? Come; I want to show you something.
The gods sent us the machine because they took pity on us.
I think whoever sent the message did it because they're worried about us.
You sound like Joseph. You think the world ends with the millennium?
Oh, not quite yet. At least for their sake... ... I hope it's not. Because they're running out of time.
What are you talking about? It's over.
Yes. A shame. Still... it'd be worse if they died for nothing.
It looks like pixie dust... Kent would've given anything to see this. David, too.
Japanese squid fleet. They use lights to attract them to the surface... then turn them into sushi.
Poor, tired, spinning girl... How we feasted on her. And now that we've had our fill and given her a giant dose of the clap... we're pulling out. That's Paris, where my daughter was born. Moscow, where gangsters rule the night and I gave up smoking. So many battles, so many lives... all that sturm, and drang. As if it never happened. If it weren't for a few power grids, you wouldn't know we existed.
It's so... small.
A sunrise and a sunset every forty- five minutes.
That's my girl. Done.
Mr. Hadden, I'm a scientist; I don't make deals... But. If you wish to give me, in good faith, access to your information, I can assure you that I will exert all reasonable efforts to promote your cause wherever it doesn't conflict with the best interests of science... or my better judgment.
In return... you get the primer -- and with it the power to stay in the game. Do we have a deal?
And in return?
That would seem to be the question of the hour. I want to build it, Doctor. Of course I'm already lobbying through the usual channels of influence and corruption -- but as I said, my colorful past has made many of those channels... difficult to navigate. I need someone on the inside.
A machine. But a machine that does what?
Very good, Doctor. I've also detected structural elements, back references, a general movement from the simple to the complex -- all of which would seem to indicate instructions -- an enormously complicated set of instructions -- for building something.
Some kind of circuitry...?
-- even if he doesn't receive the entire transmission. Heaven is the mustard seed.
You're saying... there is no separate primer in the message -- because it's on every page so the recipient can decipher it wherever he is --
Not if you think like a Vegan.
A page-break signal. A period.
Page after page of data -- over sixty-three thousand in all, if I'm not mistaken... and at the end of each...
That's my girl... Lights.
If I knew you any better I'd say that doesn't sound like you.
I've had a long time to make enemies, Dr. Arroway. There are many governments, business interests, even religious leaders who would like to see me disappear. And I will grant them their wish soon enough... But before I do, I wish to make a small contribution -- a final gesture of goodwill toward the people of this little planet who've given -- from whom I've taken so much.
You've... found it. What could I possibly have that you would want, Mr. Hadden?
Oh, maybe not out -- but definitely looking for you coat. I understand you've had some difficulty locating the -- what are you calling it? The 'primer' that will make decryption possible... I've found it.
I didn't realize I was out.
The powers that be have been quite busy lately, falling over each other to position themselves for the game of the century, if not the millennium. Perhaps you've noticed. Perhaps I could help deal you back in.
What kind of deal?
The infamous, unfashionable bluntness. You're here so we can do business. I want to make a deal.
Why am I here, Mr. Hadden?
I find it convenient to keep my interests... mobile. Anyway, I've had my fill of life on the ground. After spending much of this century pursuing the evils and pleasures the world has to offer -- after outliving three wives and two children... I find I've had quite enough of planet Earth.
You live here.
Once upon a time I was a hell of an engineer. Please, sit, Doctor. I have guests so rarely, it's important to me they feel welcome in my home. Did you know this was once Yeltsin's flying dascha? That dent is where he threw a bottle of vodka at the pilot. At least that's what the people who sold me the plane said...
S.R. Hadden... You compromised our security codes.
I think it is your naivete I like best about you, Eleanor. Oh, there'll be a worldwide protest, but we all knew it from the very beginning. You Americans discovered the signal, you led the decryption effort. The machine is being built on your home soil... Of course the passenger will be an American, chosen by Americans. Anyway, it is what the whole world wants, no? This is the big show. The sort you put on better than anyone. It's good marketing. It's good casting. It's the American way.
You're implying that the whole selection process is a sham?
I do. More than anything. But I am also a realist. Soon this... what is your charming term -- ? Dog and pony show will finally be over, and I will go home.
I thought you were here because you want to go.
Perhaps. But on the off-chance that it is a 'doomsday device' of some kind, I plan to be very far away from your lovely Texas when it is activated.
I'd say this is slightly different.
We've just lived through a century of incredible violence and self- destruction. Do you call it 'interventionist' when you stop a toddler from walking in front of a truck?
Very well. Assume this is true. Assume they have only the best of intentions. Suppose they decide to just step in and solve all our problems for us. You have no objection to them so flagrantly intervening in human affairs?
But the machine worked -- that's what I've been trying to tell everyone! The tape -- it's all there, if they'd just look at... ... the tape...
That's one way of putting it. Kitz, the President, the I.S.C. have shut down all official communications; there've also been reports of riots flaring up across the U.S. and Europe. Until we figure out what went wrong things may get rough, especially for you --
Peter... What is going on? Has everyone gone completely insane?
How long was I gone?
Peter, what are you talking about? What malfunction? What day is this?
It's all right, the important thing is you're safe --
Wait -- hold on a minute --
Thank God. When we lost contact, I thought -- we thought... but you're okay. We're still trying to determine the nature of the malfunction. Did you notice anything at all that --
I'm -- I'm fine.
Ellie -- are you okay?
Like it. Almost there.
Like it or not.
That you, Valerian?
It's really happening.
Someone tell me this is really happening.
It's good to see you, Ellie.
That is true. But it's also true that if I really thought we wanted the same things, I'd follow you anywhere... but the truth is I don't think you want the company. Be honest, El. There's nowhere you'd rather be than sitting out at some remote corner of the world searching for the answers to the mysteries of the universe. And call me crazy, but I just can't compete with that... I'm sorry.
Ellie -- I'm getting married. Her name's Laura. She came up to Owens Valley to do her post-doc about six months after you left.
I'm serious about this, Peter --
Right now -- we'll drive down to Ramey and get the base chaplain to marry us.
And you think I don't want those things? You think I don't stay up half the night wondering if I've made the right choice living half a world away from you, wondering if any of this is worth what I'm giving up for it everyday? Let's get married.
Maybe that's the problem. I want... a family, Ellie. I want kids. A townhouse on L street instead of still living like a college kid. A real life. Maybe that makes me a sellout but I don't care anymore. It's what I want.
Please, you're just as ambitious as I am, more --
'The work,' Jesus, Ellie, can't there just once be more to life than the work? Okay, maybe that's the only way to get the recognition, win the prizes --
But the work --
This is a chance to be of enormous help to other people's research -- to have the power to be a real advocate where David's got blind spots --
But what about your research -- ?
I'm going on staff at the N.S.F. To work for Drumlin.
-- I'm moving to Washington.
We could be together again --
Peter -- if you can get him to do that for me he'd obviously do the same for you -- we could -- !
Thirty-one linked dishes. You could search more sky there in a day than you could in a year here.
What if I said I could get Drumlin to agree to sell you time in New Mexico?
It's almost there. The hardest part is getting someone to sell us the telescope time.
How close are you to getting this funding put together?
If we lived at any previous time in human history we wouldn't even have the option of failing -- we'd have to wonder our whole lives, unable to do anything about it. This time, right now, is unique in our history, in any civilization's history -- the moment of the acquisition of technology. The moment when contact becomes possible. We've already beaten incredible odds by being lucky enough to be alive now.
Ellie... even if you do manage to raise the money, have you thought about what it would really mean to follow through on this? I mean a college fetish is one thing, but we're talking about your career. You won't be publishing. You won't be taken seriously... and you could spend your entire life looking and never find anything at all.
... We've been going after some of the big multi-nationals but without much luck; got a donation from a New York dowager... We've even been thinking about selling T-shirts.
I've examined over forty stars of roughly solar spectral type but so far nothing. Still, we've barely started...
Please. Any chance of that died the day David Drumlin was appointed head of the N.S.F. I have been in contact with a few other SETI people; we've been trying to find backing from private investors. I've even managed to scrounge a couple of hours of telescope time here and there...
Any luck on the grant money?
... I keep telling myself okay, that's just the price, you have to do your time doing shitwork before you're allowed to get to the good stuff... but if I have to catalog one more quasar... God, I've missed you.
'... is indistinguishable from magic.'
'Any sufficiently advanced technology...'
It's like the pre-Copernicans who swore the sun revolved around the Earth, or the Victorians at the end of the last century who concluded that all major discoveries had now been made. I mean... try to imagine civilization a thousand years ahead of us -- then imagine trying to explain... I dunno, a microwave oven -- to someone even a hundred years ago -- I mean the basic concepts didn't exist...
They can't. I think it's against human nature to admit to that level of... insignificance; to not see yourself as basically the center of the universe.
... I'm just so sick of feeling defensive about the things I care about! Or being lumped in with the lunatic fringe by people like Drumlin, when if they'd just put aside their preconceptions for two seconds and look at the facts...
What a coincidence. It happens to be my fetish too.
Keep it down, okay? Drumlin thinks I'm enough of a flake as it is. Look -- everyone here has their little fetishes. Caven goes to topless bars, Vernon's got his carnivorous plants... mine just happens to be extraterrestrial intelligence.
I read your paper on ETI's. It's brilliant.
Sounds like a Russian general.
That's what they all say.
He's an incredible prick but I never learned so much in my life.
It's beautiful but it does get a little lonely. Sometimes I think the reason we build these things in such godforsaken places isn't to avoid excess radio traffic but because we're all such pathetic antisocial misfits... Speaking of which: How're you getting on with the old man?
... Drumlin said you're been down at Arecibo for the last year.
Something my dad -- they -- said. 'After all the suffering, after all the desolation of the void -- the one thing that makes the vastness tolerable is each other.' The one thing that makes it bearable is love.
I'm not sure... Maybe it simply exists in the search for it. Maybe its something we have to make for ourselves.
Does that mean you think it doesn't exist?
I don't know. If it was a god, it was searching for a greater one. It was still searching for meaning...
In other words.
In other words, God works in mysterious ways...
Maybe what you experienced can't be reduced to images on a videotape. Maybe they still plan to grant your request, only in their own way, in their own time... Or maybe it's just like you said: ultimately their motives may be as incomprehensible as their technology.
... but it is a good question, and I suppose I'll always wonder about the answer: Why would they send me back without proof?
Ellie... if you go out there like this -- if you admit to even the possibility that what you experienced didn't actually happen -- I'm afraid they really will crucify you. Please. For your own sake, for the sake of the world... tell them what you know to be the truth. Tell them it really happened.
I want to, Palmer -- more than anything. But it has to be real. It has to be true.
Have you seen what's happening out there? The terror, the despair? The world is on fire, Ellie. People need something they can believe in, something worthy, and you can give it to them!
Ellie, the only one holding you to that standard is you! The people want to hear your story, they need to hear it!
It's not enough, don't you understand? I know it happened -- but by every standard of science, by every standard I've lived my life by that fact is utterly beside the point. It may be true but it doesn't matter because I can't prove it's real.
Ellie, you're the proof. You tell them your story. Ultimately they'll have no choice but to believe you.
I don't have any proof, Palmer.
It also makes God enormous. I think of the scope of your universe, Ellie... and it takes my breath away. As it will everyone else's.
You're sure you want to? In the universe I saw we're not exactly the stars of the show. What happened to me makes us all seem pretty damn small.
They don't believe me.
I'm not sure it's come to that.
So. I'm assuming they sent you here to administer last rites?
Pretty ironic, huh? I had to go all the way to the center of the galaxy... Just to find you.
It was quite a page turner.
I'm assuming you read my deposition.
And yet that's always how I seem to end up, isn't it? If you really do love me, Palmer, you'll leave. Now. Please.
Ellie, there is no reason you have to be alone.
I can't hear this now --
Do you really think your life is meaningless, Eleanor? Is that why you're so quick to risk it -- because if your life means nothing then you have nothing to lose?
-- I don't know --
And then what? Then you'll be safe?
Don't you understand? I just have to hold it together -- just until tomorrow --
I'm in love with you, Ellie.
What are my other options? In fifty years? Never?
Please, Palmer -- if you care for me at all, don't push this now --
What are you so afraid of?
I can't do this --
I'm sorry -- I can't --
Ellie, what is it?
What is it?
Maybe that's okay.
I do seem to be... Maybe because I'm just a little bit terrified about tomorrow.
During the crusades -- pilgrims who made the journey to the holy land brought back a palm frond to show they'd actually been there. I thought it sort of made sense that Earth is now your holy land, so...
Oh. I brought you something.
The final countdown.
So. The final countdown.
I remember. You were indelicate, indiscreet and entirely less than tactful... Sound like anyone you know?
Ellie... the last time we spoke... I said some things...
What if their answer is, 'Oh, that's easy. A thousand years ago our world was in terrible shape, our population out of control, violent crime, no food... so we called a general council and decided to eliminate the anit-social. The weak. The sick. The unwanted. And ever since we've been doing great.'
How do you mean?
An excellent question, Doctor. But what if we don't like the answer?
... Another question I would ask would be a very simple one. How did you do it? How did you evolve as far as you have and not destroy yourselves?
It's late. We should go back.
What are you so afraid of, Ellie?
It's getting late...
And yet you're willing to die for this cause, the one thing that's given your life a sense of purpose. Don't you see the contradiction here -- ?
I don't know. But as a scientist I have to consider that possibility.
Do you really believe your life is meaningless?
Maybe the reason people are having trouble finding meaning isn't because science has obscured it... maybe it's just revealed it isn't there.
I don't follow.
Did you ever stop to think that maybe that isn't science's fault, but meaning's?
I don't consider you the enemy, Ellie. I'm not 'out to get' technology. I only ask the question: Does it have to have all the answers? I look out there and I see so much emptiness... People are so starved for meaning, and it's something they just don't seem to be getting from science.
I thought it was well-written. Heart-felt. And a little bit naive... But that's just the enemy's perspective.
I won't deny I was ambitious. When I had my... experience... I wanted to tell my story to as many people as possible. I'm the first to admit that process included making some compromises. You didn't answer my question.
I'm more interested in the story behind the story... How a young man goes from living on the streets of South Boston to being the best- selling media figure rubbing elbows with the President.
What'd you think?
Losing Faith: The Search For Meaning In the Age of Reason. Catchy.
I read your book.
It's what my whole life's been... aimed at; the only thing that's given it a sense of purpose.
You're willing to die for this.
If you came back. If you survived at all. Which it's pretty certain you wouldn't.
And everybody you care about would be dead and buried.
Something like that.
If you came back... you'd only be four years older -- but over 50 years would have passed on Earth.
If you came back.
Relativity. Explain this to me one more time... even if you traveled near the speed of light, when you came back --
In other words.
In other words, God is one hell of an engineer.
It's too... elegant. The degree of economy is extraordinary; it's really the next logical step... Even on Earth technology has always aspired to a condition of nature. D.N.A. outclasses any computer we can come up with; the human body is the most exquisitely designed machine imaginable.
I don't think so.
Maybe you're creating a monster.
Not exactly. It has organic qualities, but we don't really understand how they're integrated with the mechanical systems.
Some of my best friends are scientists. They're saying the machine is alive.
I was referring to the selectees mingling with the selectors.
Some of my best friends are scientists.
So. Is this kosher fraternizing with the enemy like this?
Yes. Very much.
Did you love him?
I never knew my mother. My father died when I was nine.
Do you love your parents?
You may not believe this... but there's a part of me that wants more than anything to believe in your God. To believe that we're all here for a purpose, that all this... means something. But it's because that part of me wants it so badly that I'm so stubborn about making sure it isn't just self-delusion. Of course I want to know God if there is one... but it has to be real. Unless I have proof how can I be sure?
Look, I'm a reasonable person, and reasonably intelligent. But this experience went beyond both. For the first time I had to consider the possibility that intellect, as wonderful as it is, is not the only way of comprehending the universe. That it was too small and inadequate a tool to deal with what it was faced with.
And there's no chance you had this experience simply because some part of you needed to have it?
I had... an experience. Of belonging. Of unconditional love. And for the first time in my life I wasn't terrified, and I wasn't alone.
Can you try?
... It's an old story. I grew up in South Boston, more or less on the streets. By the time I was thirteen I'd tried my first hit of heroin, by fifteen I'd stopped using but I was dealing full-time. By the time I was nineteen I decided I didn't want to live any more, at least not in a world like that. One day I got on a bus; I got as far as Ohio before my money ran out, and after that I just kept walking. Didn't eat, didn't sleep... just walked. I ended up collapsing in a wheat field. There was a storm... I woke up... And that's about as far as words'll go.
Now you know.
That's not doubt. That's four hundred years of science fighting a billion years of instinct. I always wondered what you religious types did with your free time.
Only a tiny bit. Even the most devout believer is allowed a little doubt.
So if I let the pendulum go, when it swings back you wouldn't flinch.
And mind, yes. What are you --
And you believe this law with all your heart and soul.
That's not faith, it's physics. The second law of thermodynamics.
Your 'faith' tells you that the distance a pendulum swings from the vertical can never get bigger, only smaller.
Very smooth. It's Palmer, right? Where I came from a palmer was a person who cheated at cards. Really though... the Bible describes a God who watches over one tiny world a few thousand years old. I look out there and see a universe of hundreds of billions of galaxies, each with hundreds of billions of stars... I mean burn me for a heretic, but your God seems awfully small.
'My father's house has many mansions.'
Well it's been a while, but I don't recall the Bible saying too much about alien civilizations.
How do you mean?
What about you? Doesn't all of this shake your faith at all?
Spoken like a true believer.
I guess I would've felt sorry for the universe.
And what would you have done if the odds had gone against you?
I'd say logic more than faith. The odds were on my side.
... What I'm curious about are the wilderness years. You're out there all alone, no money, mocked by the skeptics. It must have taken tremendous faith.
Make that two.
I'd have to say I don't know enough to have one yet. For the moment I don't believe the two approaches have to be mutually exclusive.
And where exactly does that put your position...?
I agree with Mr. Rank that there are unavoidable religious implications here -- but I don't think it justifies taking an alarmist position. Dr. Arroway is right -- their chosen means of communication was a scientific one, and a scientific approach is probably appropriate, at least until the theological dimensions of the problem become more apparent.
For managing the truth. But the truth won't be managed, sir. It stops being the truth the moment you try.
Nobody is proposing we censor the truth here, Doctor. We're simply talking about putting a mechanism in place --
I guess I'd say I trust us enough to believe our response would be something to the effect of, thanks for the advice, but no thanks. But to dilute or censor the truth, for whatever reason --
How would you propose we handle it, Doctor?
You kill me, you really do. The first truly global, a-political event in history and you can't wait to spin it.
Y'know what? Fine. I guess if we want them to know the truth about who we are there's no quicker way to show them.
Dr. Arroway, you are entitled to your opinion. But we feel quite strongly that it would by both irresponsible and naive to send a human being into a completely unknown, completely uncontrollable situation absolutely defenseless.
Call it xenophobic paranoia. Don't you see the absolute absurdity of this? This isn't about them, it's about us -- our violence, our fear and mistrust --
It's designed purely as a defensive device. Call it a reasonable precaution.
I question the thinking behind sending the first ambassador to another civilization in armed -- basically announcing our intentions are hostile.
You have a question, Dr. Arroway?
Have your department make a full report.
I don't know. Maybe we built the damn thing wrong. Maybe it was all a hoax... The safest thing would probably be to do a Chernobyl; encase it in concrete.
... as have all attempts at internal analysis. We've tried sonargrams, magnetic resonance, gamma rays; it's completely impenetrable.
That's it, Mike. Last time I checked, I was still running the country. Although it seems that for the moment, Dr. Arroway is running the planet.
Well. That would seem to decide it. Like it or not, for the moment, anyway, it looks like we're all in this together.
What is it?
Oh my God...
Cut that backsass!
But I made this arrangement --
Git movin', I said.
I don't think you understand. We made a deal ---
Git your shovel and git to work.
Boss, I made an arrangement with that man to take his broom.
I got two years.
Hot damn, Drag. Tomorrow's Saturday. Another week almost made.
I've got this weak heart. Too much drinking, I guess. As soon as they find out about it, they'll probably send me someplace else.
Buck is a deal.
I'll make it a dollar.
Fifty cents? Sweet job like that worth at least a buck.
We work down in the ditch?
I'm lucky I got a broom. Work up top. Real easy job. Man, it's gonna be hot down in that ditch.
It wasn't his fault. Nobody said anything about seats. We --
You don't take another man's place, boy.
Laugh it up, kid. You'll make out.
Gotta go, Arletta.
Nothin' to do with it. I ain't never give John the kind of feelin' I give you, so I'm payin' him off now. Don't feel you got to say anything. Way it is, sometimes, you just have a feelin' for a child or you don't, and with John I just didn't.
That's good: he earned it.
I'm leavin' the place to John.
Well, why not? Idee of marryin' got you all choked up, trying to pretend you was respectable you was borin' the hell out of all of us.
She took off with that convertible feller...
You allus had good jobs, and that girl in Kentucky I taken a shine to her.
Tried to live always just as free and aboveboard as you been, and well, they ain't that much elbow room.
Nothin'. Ever'thing's cool's can be.
What went wrong?
You think life is some kind of ocean voyage and you start out with buntin' and hollerin' and high hopes, but the damn ship goes down before you ever reach the other side. Luke?
Yeah, would of been nice to of knowed him, the way you talk about him.
Oh, I had me some high old times. Yore old man, Luke, wasn't much for stickin' around, but damn it he made me laugh.
You never wanted to live forever anyways, did you? It wasn't such a hell of a life.
I ain't askin' what you'll do after you get out, because I'm gonna be dead and it don't matter.
We call it abuildin' time, Arletta.
What are you doin' here?
Well, I don't know, I just wash my hands of it, I guess I just got to love you and let go.
No. But things ain't always like they seem, Arletta. You know that. A man's gotta go his own way.
We allus thought you was strong enough to carry it. Was we wrong?
You never thought that's a heavy load?
No it hain't, Luke. You ain't alone. Ever whar you go, I'm with you, and so's John.
Yeah, well, Arletta, you done your best. What I done with myself is my problem.
Smokin' it up here, Boss.
Sometimes I wisht people was like dogs, Luke. Comes a time, a day like, when the bitch just don't recognize her pups no more, so she don't have no hopes nor love to bring her pain. She just don't give a damn. They let you smoke?
Like to oblige you, Arletta, but right off I don't know where to put my hands on 'em.
I allus hoped to see you well fixed and have me a crop of grandkids to kiss and fuss around with.
Well, Arletta, I got to stand down here.
Yeah. Well. Gettin' up here, Boss.
Helen, she sent along your things with a note, and John here, he wrote to the police.
How'd you find me?
Yeah. Did you have them both at once or --
We saw the broads.
He's probably a gigolo.
A salesman! Cool Hand Luke a salesman?
You steal a car?
Tell us about it.
Ram it in and break it off!
Sure he's got kings but you still gotta call him.
Gotta have kings.
Oh lean over here, lady. Lean this way.
Lookit her bounce.
You cut that up fer lunch, Luke.
Yes sir, Boss Paul!
Go git it, Luke.
I know, I know. Just don't hit me.
Luke, you run again and we'll kill you.
No, Boss! I won't. I won't. I got my mind right. I got it right, Boss. Please don't hit me no more.
Supposin' you was to backslide on us, Luke? Supposin' you was to backsass or try to run again...
Yes, Boss. I got it right.
You got your mind right, Luke?
Don't hit me! Please, for God's sake, don't hit me.
Git to work!
What's all this dirt in the yard?
You don't know!
I don't know, Boss.
Then how come it ain't done yet?
Boss, you don't need reasons to hit me.
You was eyeballin', Luke. You can't gitcha mind on them weeds if yer eyeballin'...
Yeah. Come on out, Luke.
Comin' out here, Boss?
She's got him! You hear that?
Here's the Patrol.
How my suppose to handle a dog someone jus' let loose?
It ain't my fault you don't know how to handle your dogs.
She's on to him. You shoulda waited fer me to git her out -- loose like she is, he kin run her crazy.
Captain says to wait 'til the Patrol gits here.
Blue'll git him, Boss. We'll git that bastid, Cool Hand Luke.
He ain't even got the sense to run from the road like everybody else.
Yeah, they sure do make a lot of cold, hard, noise, Captain.
You gonna get used to wearing them chains aftera while, Luke. But don't you never stop listenin' to them clinkin'. That's gonna remind you of what I been sayin'.
Well, you got yourself some time now. Two years. Hell, that ain't much, we got coupla men here doin' twenty spots. We got one who's got all of it. We got all kinds and you gonna fit in real good. Course in case you git rabbit in your blood and decide to take off fer home, you git a bonus a some time and couple leg chains to keep you slowed down a little -- fer your own good. You'll learn the rules. It's all up to you. I can be a good guy or I can be one mean son-of-a-bitch, it's up to you.
That's right, Captain. Just passin' the time.
Says here you done real good in the war: Silver Star, Bronze Star, couple Purple Hearts. Sergeant! Little time in stockades. Come out the same way you went in: Buck Private.
I guess you could say I wasn't thinkin', Captain.
Well, we ain't never had one of them. Where'd you think that was gonna get you?
Cuttin' the heads off parkin' meters, Captain.
Maliciously destroyin' municipal property while under the influence. What was that?
Mister Cool Hand here is the soft heart in our Loan Department. Next!
Borrowin' or payin' back?
You jes' watch us!
You can't do that!
Ah believe I smell me a blonde-haired lady.
That ain't nuthing compared to what we used to do in San Pedro. There was this ensign...
I did three hitches in the Navy. It ain't bad. After a while, you get used to it and the time --
Only two? Man, I already done eight. Nothin' to it. Just make the days and let the weeks and the years make themselves.
-- went down to see this old hag and she had needles the size of that cane.
Had it done in Singapore. Bunch of us drunk as coots --
I'll give you fifty cents.
You was to sell your job, maybe this Lucas War Hero would give you a price.
Fasten your flap! All you Newmeats gonna have to shape up fast and hard on this gang. We got rules here an' in order to learn them, you gotta keep your ears open and your mouths shut.
In the Navy, we used to call guys --
He's gonna be awright.
That's my baby.
Well --- okay. It's a deal. One cold drink, if'n you please. In advance. One chilly bottle right here in mah hot l'il hand... That goes for the rest of you mullet-heads, too.
A cold drink? Okay?
A cold drink? You mean one cold drink? To feast yore starvin' fishy l'il eyes on The Picture? A true vision of Paradise itself? With two of the angels right there in plain sight a- friskin' round with mah boy?
A cold drink.
It'd go to your coconut head. You'd start getting ideas. Maybe even pass right out.
Come on, Drag. Lemme take a look.
Dragline, lemme look at the picture.
Mah baby! We're diggin' and dyin' but our boy Luke is lovin' and flyin'.
Oh lookit that brunette.
Lemme see it!
I'm dyin'. I'm dyin'.
Looka that! Two of them. Oh my...
He's eatin' steak and corn with butter and green beans and...
He ain't eating beans fer lunch.
Shut up. Let him eat. Don't pay them no mind, boy.
What happened? How far did you get?
Jus' take it slow, buddy.
'Bout two hours left.
But there's still daylight left.
So then you just call him.
He's been betting his head from the gun. Gotta have kings.
Uh-huh. And he ain't got nothing showing. Raise his head off.
I kin see that, brick head. I mean your hole card.
Look, she's got paint on her toenails! Oh Lord, whatever I done, don't strike me blind for 'nother couple minutes. Oh you Lucille!
I'm dyin'. I'm dyin'!
I got eyes, don't I? How my not gonna see something like that?
Oh, man, did you see her? Did you see her?
Drag's been chain-ganging so long he's got a nose like a bloodhound.
She looks just like Mrs. Patricia Handy, a married woman... I useta fool with. Man, I kin sniff blondes from a hunnert yards and redheads from a mile and a half.
Wouldn't surprise me none. Wicker Man says you got a hundred- twenny and some change in the Captain's safe and you got your five dollars pocket money... That'll buy you a whole fistfull of cards. You in or out?
Newmeat looks like a poker player, Drag.
You gotta mind your manners, you actin' like a hillbilly tramp.
Thass right. Just play it...
Like I always do?
Luke, you got to listen to me. All you got to do is just give up nice and quiet, just play it cool.
You don't understand a thing, do you, Drag?
Why sure, Luke. I mean I didn't talk to them about that. But why not? They're reasonable, Luke. Hell, we only been gone a coupla hours.
Do we even get our same bunks back?
Luke, are you alright?... They got us, boy. They're out there thicker'n flies. Bosses and dogs and sheriffs and more guns than I ever seen in my life. We don't have a chance, Luke... They caught up with me right after we split up and they was aimin' to kill you, Luke. But I got 'em to promise if you give up peaceful, they wouldn't even whip you this time.
Is that your answer, Old Man? You're a hardcase too, ain't you?
But what am I gonna do all by myself? Oh if'n I hadn't lost mah head. I only had two more years to go. But when I saw you tearin' down with that truck... But you right Luke. We oughta split up. Be safer for us both.
On my own.
Luke. Where you goin?
Take it easy, Drag.
I've done enough world-shakin' for a while. You do the rest for me. Send me a postcard about it.
What you mean, Luke?
Yeah, well, you and Koko kin handle it without me.
What you talkin' about, Luke? We're together, you and me, just like always. Now the thing we gotta work out is how to get Koko outa there and then the Terrible Trio be all complete again. Man, this old Free World ain't gonna know which ear to stand on.
We ain't goin' nowhere.
Whoee, it's cold. Wisht I had somethin' to eat. Bread, grits, beans even. Soon's we get to my house, we're gonna have us one big meal and then I'm gonna show you some farm girls that...
And all the time you was plannin' on runnin' again.
Foolin', Hell! I would have eaten that dirt for them. They coulda used my head for a shovel and a my face for a broom... They just never did get a piece of my mind.
Don't hit me no more, Boss! Don't hit me! I'll do anythin' you say but just don't hit me! Oh Luke. You are an original, you truly are. You really fooled them.
Oh, that's mah darlin' Luke. Grins like a baby and bites like a 'gator.
Sure do... that's why we didn't bet with the Navy.
Knock it off, Luke! You cain't talk about Him that way.
Look at Him go. Bam! Bam!
Us elephants may be a lil slow, like in makin' love, but you give us a coupla three days to really get with it an' man -- stand back!
Like an elephant.
'Atsa sign I got me an affectionate nature.
You ol' sack of guts. I had a belly like yours, we wouldn't have nothin' to worry about.
Yeah, I know. But what we gotta do first is stretch that l'il ol' belly of yours -- git it all strained out, in fightin' shape, like a barrage balloon.
We got it locked in the sock.
What did I do? Stole and tole lies. I loved mah neighbor and his wife, but what did I do to deserve this lunatic to come in mah happy home and beat me outa hard earned bread.
Nothin' to worry about. We got a deadlock on that mullet.
Damn, Luke. What's the matter with you? what's the matter with me?
Fifty's a nice round number.
Why'd you have to say fifty? Why not thirty-five or thirty-nine?
That's it. That's the end.
Where'd the road go?
They ain't never seen a bull gang before.
They don't know iff'n to smile, spit or swallow.
The man wants speed, let's give it to him. Ram it in and break it off. Go hard. Shag it.
Hey, buddy. Take it easy. You're making me look bad.
Cool Hand Luke.
Nuthin' can be a pretty cool hand.
Nuthin'! A handfull of nuthin'! You stupid mullet-head. He beat you with nuthin'! Just like today when he kept coming back at me.
That's what you're gonna have to do.
I'm gonna kill you, you go on...
Stop beatin', man. You ain't doin' nobody no good.
Whatta you mean, forget it?
Boy. You jus' asking to be handled!
Your Lucille? Man, you better put them glasses back on and take a look at yourself.
Shut your mouth 'bout my Lucille.
That'sa Lucille, you mullet head! Any girl so innocent and built like that gotta be named Lucille.
Lucille? Where do you get that?
Long enough to see redhots come and redhots go.
Maybe he's been chain-ganging too long.
But damn if he don't look like a fat old Dragline.
Man, this here Newmeat parking meter bandit thing what calls itself Luke don't know nuthin' 'bout nuthin'.
I thought you knew, boy... they sentenced me by the mile.
Slow down, man. They ain't passing out medals for slinging dirt.
You tryin' to say somethin'?
Yeah, those poor old guards need all the help they can get.
Course not. He ain't in the box 'cause a the joke played on him. He's there 'cause he back sassed a Free Man. They got their rules and we ain't got nothing to do with that. Woulda probably happened to him sooner or later, to a complainer like him. He's gotta learn the rules same as anybody else.
Back at it in the mornin'. Just need a little nap...
Plumb busted out. Looks like the hard road finally got to Mister Lucas War Hero.
I just always did like truck rides.
Whatta you so happy about?
Well, you know. Small town, not much to do in the evenings. Mostly it was settling up old scores.
Oh we got our sources... Tearing the heads off... what was it... gumball machines? What kind of thing is that for a grown man?
A Lucas Jackson.
Well, whatta we got here?
I didn't say nothin', Boss.
Somebody say somethin'?
Oh mah baby Luke.
That fool. That damn fool.
Your Luke's got more guts than brains.
That ole box collapse and fall apart before Luke calls quits.
Oh my. Oh my... Give it back here!
Dear Boys. Playing it cool. Wish you were here. Love, Cool Hand Luke.
What's the writing say?
All right now: get mad at them eggs. Eat it there boy! Bite it! Gnaw on it!
Come on, boy, come on, darlin'. You kin do her. Just let that ol' belly sag and enjoy itself. Stay loose, buddy. Eight more, between you and everlasting glory. Little ol' eggs, pigeon eggs, that's all, fish eggs practically.
Thirty-nine... forty... forty-one... forty-two...
You jus' may be great at hangin' paper around the big cities, but us country boys is not entirely brainless. When it comes to the law, nothin' is understood.
He peels the eggs himself. That's understood.
You ever see mah boy throw up? Shut your mouth and put up your money!
One rule! No throwing up. He throws up, you forfeit everything.
Koko, write down their names, don't just make marks.
You ever eat fifty eggs?
You just said he could eat anything.
Nobody kin eat fifty eggs.
He's the champeen hog-gut of this camp. Hell, I seen him eat ten choc'lat bars and seven cold drinks in fifteen minutes. He kin eat busted bottles and rusty nails, any damn thing. If you'd so kindly oblige as to let me cut off your yankee head, he'd even eat that.
Not a liar. You just have a common -- and likable -- tendency toward exaggeration.
Maybe we oughta call you No-Ears. You don't listen much, do you, boy?
Dragline gives out the names here. You'll get yours when he figures you out.
All the bears gonna be walking today.
Oh no, man! Not on this hot muther.
I know he's got a paira kings. He don't have to stick 'em in my ear.
Man, you play like a kokonut. You got to call him at least.
I gotta believe. Out! Now they're rollin'. King-five-four gets an eight. Pair'a nines with a Jack gets a four. Ninas still up.
Ace calls. Here we go. King-five gets a tray for no help. Paira ninas gets a Jack. Ana man with the ace gets... slop in the face... Ninas up.
Ana paira ninas. Koko's the brains.
Gettin' up, Carr.
Man, it's so hot.
Bears gonna be walkin' the road today.
Man! It's gonna be one hot muther today.
Bet! Babalugats, bet here!
No more than five. For a cold drink.
A bunch. Must be halfa dozen Newmeat.
That's all there was. Listen. Open your eyes. Stop beatin' it. And stop feedin' off me. Now get out of the way. Give me some air.
But -- but --
A phoney? Whatta you mean, a phoney?
Picture's a phoney... Cost me a week's pay.
Fat mile'n a half. Hit this red light, highway patrol pulls up alongside.
Well, how far didya get?
Yeah, found one in this supermarket, keys in the ignition.
Kick a buck.
Back a buck.
Kick a buck.
That is one mean lady. Bet her husband spends one day a week shooting milkmen.
Man Oh Man.
You phony creep!
You've been having bad luck with masters, haven't you? Your last one left you when the cops came... and now Luke. You should complain to the S.P.C.A.
Big deal paper hanger! Hell, anyone who can write can pass fifty-sixty dollar checks. Like breakin' open a piggy bank.
But you're dog enough. Maybe they'll let you sleep outside the box near your master.
You ain't man enough to wear them!
No. No chains either.
I don't see no sign of guts in you.
Give in? That's our Luke out there.
He doesn't know when to give in. They'll kill him.
What are you talking about?
He'll never make it.
How about you tryin' to make me?
He's gonna lose a finger eating eggs like that.
One, two, three...
This is a big day for the guards. They get to remind us who's boss.
You think you've been working hard. This muther'll break your back.
You can't expect him to learn everything the first day. Hopefully it's taught him a very valuable lesson.
You can't switch 'round jobs, anyway. I figured he knew that.
Hell, no. I ain't goin' down in the ditch.
Koko, why don't you let one of these Newmeats take your broom for today?
A little homeopathic cure for the willies.
It's good medicine.
Open space. She hasn't been out of this apartment in three years. I didn't used to think it was real...
Fear of what...
You threatened to drive her downtown. She has agoraphobia.
What did I do?
Now look what you did.
I hate this...
None of your fucking business.
Excuse me, but would you mind explaining why you're watching the lady upstairs?
Hal has it.
Where have you <u>been</u>? What happened to your wallet?
Stop acting like a silly little fag!
It's almost six. And guess what? Hall likes me bathed and shaved.
You've got a date right <u>here</u>, Andy. This has got to...
Sorry, Luv. I've got a date.
I know. Do come and meet your guest.
Look out for her. She's tougher than you think.
Oh, God, I forget. Yes. Yes. You go. Poor thing, you ought to get out.
The moon is up, my night to howl. Will you be okay?
Get out! All of you!
I'm the only friend you've got, darling, and I don't intend to stop doing what I think is good for us.
None of you know anything about it. Now go. And Andy, if you persist in playing doctor, leave, with them.
Then, why don't you just die. I'm going. They'll find your body years later, the old recluse lady, she ate cat food, ten years of the New York Times, unread, piled on top of the unread mail, the TV still on. Make up your mind. Live or die. I'll get coffee.
I can't, Andy.
When are you going to call them?
You <u>slut</u>! No sexy young cop for you unless you shampoo your hair.
Reminded me that I used to be attractive. That men used to want me...
What? What'd I do?
I wouldn't. He'll be back. If you want him. The cute brutal type with handcuffs. Very sexy.
I want to die.
No, dear. You're at your best with a bag in front of your face.
Oh, God. I must have looked horrible.
Okay. You win. 'Dirty Harry' coming up.
But earlier, he was staring up here. <u>Please</u>, Andy.
Oh my God! Help! HE'S READING A NEWSPAPER!
You parked right behind him. The one I noticed earlier. I didn't say anything, I thought he'd leave. Just take a look.
Cellulite. What do you say I blindfold you and take you to the gym. Aerobics with housewives...
Monsieur Andy can <u>smell</u> your coiffure. And guess what else?
Monsieur Andy, disapproves of my coiffure?
When was the last time you washed your hair?
Oh God. I'm really crazy.
Andy? When a three-year-old says there's a monster under the bed, you don't say 'forget it'. You look under the bad. I'm three years old. Call the prison.
He can't phone you unless the warden gets an okay from you. Did you give him an approval?
He whispered, but it was <u>him</u>! I know it was him!
A little heavy breathing is what most of us yearn for. <u>Forget</u> it.
I had the dream again. And I got another call. This time he spoke. He said "You and me, you and me."
Are you kidding? You buy enough gourmet junk every week... most of which <u>rots</u>... to garage a fleet of stretch limos.
I've told you: I can't afford to garage it.
Well! Aren't we the daring one? What's morbid and ghastly enough in the news to make Doctor Helen set foot outside her door? The antenna is gone off her car again. I had no music, all the way to the market. Let me find a garage for it?
I got it myself... I couldn't wait.
Would you please get your hands off my face, Tallulah? What happened to the newspaper?
Where were you? Don't tell me. It's just under seventy, right? The sun is strong but the air is dry and fresh...
Gaahhd! What a <u>cop</u>! You busted me! The new one, in the Marina. She has a police radio scanner. It's always on. She turns it off, and then she has to turn it on again. She's obsessed. She can't not listen to it, but she can't listen to it, so she makes me listen to it.
Tell her about <u>what</u>?
She just got to sleep. Do you have to tell her about it now?
Hey, no. Leave those here. If you really want her help. I mean if you really do, leave them. Let her see them. I'll see they're safe...
Tell her we're sorry we bothered her.
Oh, God, uniforms, more stress. Let her sleep. It's a self-limiting: she hyperventilates till she passes out, then her breathing goes back to normal, and she wakes up singing like a lark. We know, don't we, Princess? Give her a couple of hours. I know about this.
We'll get the paramedics...
You talked to me. Do you remember?
Are you staying long? Shall I shut the door? Make your coffee? Make the beds?
I'm okay. I really kind of enjoyed it.
Investigators Halloran and Goetz. I apologize for Goetz, he's a firehouse dog.
Yes. I believed him.
And you believed him when he told you he had done that.
When he was seventeen.
When was that?
He told me he had done two others just like it.
What first two murders. We don't know about them here, do we?
The first two murders.
The same as the first time...
What pattern was that?
He took pains to hide his actions because he knew they were morally wrong. He was not acting on mad impulse. He was sane and acting out a pattern he carefully followed every time.
Because people who are suffering from aural hallucinations hear voices in both ears. Daryll Lee told me that Joan of Arc always appeared beside him on his left side and spoke softly in his left ear.
You said, first, he was lying. How do you know that, Doctor?
I thought he was lying.
'Lying. He was lying.' I asked you what you thought, not what he did.
He was lying.
Only part. What else? What did you think of his claim that he tied this girl to the tree and set fire to her because Joan of Arc told him to do it.
The test criteria are only part of what we look at in evaluating subjects.
Without question? He only scored 40 percent, four out of ten criteria? Couldn't another expert say he <u>flunked</u> the sexual sadist test? What curve are you marking on, Doctor?
Yes. Without question.
What day is this? In jail you lose track. This week. Friday.
No, that's still in my jacket I was wearing. We were supposed to meet on the docks, that number 47 wharf, 10 o'clock Friday. He's gonna hand me 500 bucks.
You already made the delivery?
Wait... wait... I already called him, I threw it away.
I don't have it...
You were going to make a delivery to Peter Kurten for Daryll Lee Cullum. I want Kurten's phone number.
Tell me what you want me to say. Anything.
Doesn't work that way. You had your chance, now fuck yourself...
You get me out first.
You don't listen very good. This break in -- I can call it a felony -- three strikes, and you got about sixteen strikes already, and you're in jail for the rest of your life, no parole. Or I could see it gets forgotten.
I never carried a gun!
Shut up -- I'm talking. You got felony breaking and entering, burglary, felonious...
I never hurt nobody...
Cut the crap. You got a sheet the length of my arm...
I was? How you spell that?
Inspector Halloran. Homicide. You were supposed to contact a Peter Kurten?
Who are you?
She don't want it.
She's supposed to have it.
We know... Send the book to evidence...
The door was already open...
He told you she was loaded, any- thing you could steal you could keep, Conrad? You bought yourself a return ticket to Quentin, breaking and entering.
Daryll Lee Cullum, he wrote that book, he wanted the lady to have it. They won't let him send it to her, so I'm getting out, he asks me to deliver it in person, he says, put it on her pillow. It has all about how he tried to kill her.
I'm trying to tell you. It's on the lady's pillow...
Where is it?
The door was open, swear to God, I'm just looking for her when you come charging up the stairs...
You break into her apartment to deliver a gift? Where is it?
I brought a present for the lady, there. I'm looking for her, to give her the present...
Then you get your ass outta here, I don't wanta see you again...
That Klutz. They send him back here, I'll kick his ass good.
Conrad has the phone number. Conrad, where is he?
How was Conrad supposed to find Kurten?
Damn! I gave that to Conrad, too! That guy! I told Conrad deliver to Kurten and keep the 500 bucks in return for getting my book to you.
Where did you send the message to Peter Kurten?
You come and visit.
I think whatever is best for you, Daryll. And maybe you're right, that's the place.
Listen, you want my advice? Steer clear. He's writing me he's gonna finish 'my unfinished symphony.' He's gonna give me $550 for some of my cum, he says he's in a position to see that I will be immortal if he has some of my spunk. I'm offended. Right away I smell <u>freak</u>. Writin' about him and me and <u>you</u> bein' joined and he's gonna finish my <u>symphony</u>? I didn't care for his drift. I sent some liquid soap in a sandwich baggie with a message from Jesus to mend his ways. You hear I found Jesus? And what's funny is, now I don't mind bein' inside. If I was out, even Born Again, I'd probably get restless again. It's maybe better I stay here, what do you think?
I don't know. I'd like to know where he is.
Something personal. Is he bothering you?
Ah ha. What did he want?
Kurten! Is he bothering you? I told that son I'd send him what he wanted if he leave you alone.
I will. I'll call you, Daryll, and talk to you about it after I've read it. Right now I have a question... Peter Kurten.
Bet you never figured I'd follow in your footsteps. It's real well- written. You should read it -- you're in it.
I'll look for it, Daryll Lee.
I sent it by private courier, he didn't give it to you? That son of a gun...!
You read my book which as you know, hit the stands a couple of weeks ago. You read it yet.
Hello, Daryll Lee.
Back in the driver's seat again, Doctor? That old dream -- study us to see what makes us sick. So you can find a cure -- they'd name it after you? Death is the only cure for people like me.
Do anything you want to me. I give myself to you. Only put the knife down. Isn't this what you always wanted? I know it's what we all want, to love and to loved. I could love you. You could work together in some safe place, learn to really understand you, help you, give you some peace of mind, some happiness...
Oh, please. I know what's coming, now. "Let me help you..."
I don't have the talent for any of those things. All I have a talent for is death. And I am one of a kind. What do you think of your student now? I have made you famous, I am your creation and your monument.
That's not who I admire -- I admire people who are good at what they do, great artists, writers, thinkers...
Why did you do that? Didn't you have any idea how hard it was for me, to get that far? I worshipped you. You inspired me. I thought you could understand me the way you understood the others. I knew that about you -- the ones you admired were the great murderers; they fascinated you.
I have no life anymore. I ruined your life, make me pay for it.
We'll keep talking. Until they get here. Then...
Don't talk to me about courage. I know death, what it's like to kill. You're not a killer -- you watched Daryll Lee kill that cop and you didn't make a peep, because you were paralyzed with fear. You chocked. I know something <u>else</u> about you.
Do it. If that's what all this carnage is about, then do it. Have enough guts to do it.
No. Not yet.
Kill me, Peter, do it, now.
Where it began -- McCluskey Auditorium.
You know where.
Yes. I do. I want it to end now. Let her go. I'll come -- just let her go. She's not important.
I don't care -- she's a cop. That's the important thing. Cop-ness, not sex-ness. It won't be perfect, but it'll be good.
You've been perfect. Don't spoil the symmetry -- you have to have a male cop.
I need her; she's a cop. I have to kill a cop, and then...
For God's sake Peter, leave her out of it. You don't want her, you want me.
Oh, I think you will.
You know I can't do that.
Mm-hmm. I can't get to you. You have to come to me.
It's Daryll Lee Cullum, isn't it?
What was that? What am I hearing? The sound of an epiphany, a sudden blinding insight?
<u>You</u> thought I was going to do Ted Bundy next, so you sent your partner...
Where are you, Peter?
You like that action? Didn't that cop on TV look <u>solemn</u>? The guy in the basement doesn't matter, anyway, just another lonely heart.
Who was the man in the basement?
Hi. It's your worst student, Peter Foley -- how do you grade me now, Doctor?
Why can't I drive home? I will. You. Look at you. <u>You</u> need a ride home. And you don't even know it.
Oh, shut up, and don't be so damn self righteous.
If there's a one percent possibil- ity, can you live with yourself when he kills again?
This has been the worst 48 hours of my life. I'm going home. I'm going to try to get drunk.
He hasn't done Bundy. He's done every one of the others, hasn't he? If there are three dead Chi Omega college girls tomorrow, how will you feel? Go there. See if there could be any way for him to escape.
Helen -- let go. You've got to let go.
They never kill themselves. How do you know it was him. You never met him. You never even saw a photograph...
Helen. I saw him die. I saw him burning on the basement stairs, he never reached the top.
Christ, Helen. The first time, we're ahead of the son of a bitch! I can't leave you like this -- and there's no time. Knock yourself out.
W-We had a fight. I called him... called him a name...
How many do you need to sleep. Really sheep?
I've got to go. I've <u>got</u> to go.
I am not going to talk about it. How do you <u>know</u> it was Andy if the head was gone? Where is the head? Are you looking for it? Oh, God, why him? Because of me. I can't talk about it. I write about things like this, stuff it all in books and bury it in libraries. This is the first person close to me who's ever died. And it's because of me. This monster killed him because I loved him.
Out. Where does he go? Nowhere. What does he do? Nothing.
I'm working on it! It's what I do. Quinn...Halloran. I'll wait. Where's Andy, can we get some coffee in here?
Maybe you should...
Bundy. That's the last one in your speech...
Yes. Dahmer! And after that...
Look. There's the order: you wrote it: DeSalvo, Bianchi & Buono, Berkowitz and Dahmer. It's going to be Dahmer next. Which means he'll kill a man.
The University computer is down for maintenance, but I've been going through my own notes...
What does it matter? This guy, you checked your course records, who signed up?
Who's the married man?
Where's the john? Let me clean up this mess, and get back to work.
You're exhausted. Let me get you a brandy.
A man? I thought he was a boy. This last Christmas was the happiest Christmas I had in the last ten years... you know why? It was the first Christmas in six years I was not in love. Son of a bitch <u>married men</u>! Who cares about marriage, the bed just gets crowded and noisy?!
He felt sorry for me. It was so nice to flirt. He was a darling man.
I just thought it was so -- unprofessional. Of you both!
Ruben's dead. So stupid, a cop thing, a crazy kid and a buncha dumb mistakes... I'm sorry... because you and he...
What happened to you?!
You do that one, I don't want it...
They're not talking to me. Saks looks right through me. I ask him for some bodies, for the phones -- he's so encouraging: "you make that <u>your</u> little job." Condescending bastard. Helen, on your lists to call is San Quentin. Daryll Lee Cullum?
Let's speed up the game plan... call all the living serials to ask if they've had contact with a Peter Kurten. We could use some help on the phones...
They get fan letters...
'...great dark hall of fame... all our greatest killers...' His greatest <u>heroes</u>? He wants to be famous. When they're caught and people like me write about them, we give them a kind of immortality. They get thousands of letters. Ramirez kills eight women and gets a hundred marriage proposals a month. They're like film stars.
It's not chronological: Son of Sam was before Hillside.
It's also the major piece of evidence, and it makes you a key part of his plan. You can't run away from it anymore. Look at the order he's doing them... He did three as the Boston Strangler just to tell us a copycat serial killer was at work. Then he did one like the Hillside Strang- ler. And then one as Son of Sam. To lead us on -- to where and what end? And he's doing more than that -- he's imitating each killer's method as closely as he can -- in details. Injecting Windex. Using .44. Playing Abba.
They weren't going to show it to me?! The arrogance! It's my <u>life</u>!
I put my ass on the line, giving you that.
What I can't believe is that in an earlier life I slept with him! Christ! Any God that loved his people would give women a rewind on their life and an erase button. Just give me a minute here. The letter is addressed to me... You don't feel fear, do you? You're young. You feel like you'll live forever. How wonderful.
He said to send you his regards and to tell you that the Bureau holds you in the highest esteem.
They put Merry <u>Saks</u> on it?!
Look in the crowd. He liked to hang around and watch the cops at work...
Ruben's gone to look... It's banged up but it looks like a .44. It's Son of Sam. Is it Son of Sam?
One of those goddamned car alarms. What's going...
What's that siren?
What's that music. It's Abba. I can hear it. It's Abba.
Helen, hang up, let Ruben get on with his work...
Because I'm all you've got.
Why should I trust you?
I did not; the Mouth -- that's what we call Susan Schiffer -- got it on her own.
You betrayed me! Now every psychopath in the city knows I'm back in business... You lied to me!
I'm giving you Clint outside.
This one, yes. I was always curious about these twisted little souls, but this is the first one I've felt personally terrified of. He's something new and unheard of. I don't know what he wants.
You're afraid of him.
Who's going to catch him? You? And if you do, there'll be another one. And one after that.
He'll get caught. If he has a plan that'll be what trips him up...
Ah, if you knew that, you'd be half way to nailing him. Serial killing is irrational and rigid and compulsive. This guy has a plan all thought out, flexible and complex. He's playing a game with us. Who will he imitate next? Maybe he's doing all the serial killers in history, the great innovators, the murderers' hall of fame. Just to prove he's better than all of them. They got caught; he didn't.
Injected Windex! Why would he switch to a new m.o.?
It's what Bianchi and Buono injected into one of their victims.
I know Windex, for God's sake, I clean my own windows...
Consistency is the hobgoblin of <u>little</u> minds. Tell them to test for the chemicals found in Windex. That's a product for cleaning with...
That's not consistent... You said they never changed their style, they're robots...
That's exactly... I could have taken that same picture, this morning.
Is that it?
So far nothing they test for comes up positive.
There were needle marks. But no drugs in her blood.
Please thank Inspector Goetz for taking care of me last night.
Hello, Ruben... So that's that...
Clint is putting a guard on you. But if you swear to leave the computer on, Winona will assign him to the hall outside.
That little Winona Ryder manner... you're more convincing as Clint Eastwood.
Helen -- the killer directly contacted you. His interest in you is <u>intense</u>. I'm worried about you. I don't want to lose you. I know this stirs up every monster under the bed, but this is the only direct contact we have with him. The only chance we have to trap him. So, you can turn Internet back on, or I do, and we put somebody here on a 24 hour shift and you can kick, scream and hyperventilate.
Have you got a warrant? Get the hell out o here! This is the <u>only space I have left in the</u> <u>world</u>! Why can't you leave me out of it?
He comes in the window, we maybe grab him. Where's the on-switch?
I turned it off. It's like an open window he can climb right in...
Who turned off the Internet computer...
You're saying it's the same man, but he's changed his style? That doesn't happen. These men are robotic; the murder is like a ritual. The method itself is part of the pleasure...
She was killed somewhere else and dumped outdoors in an empty lot. Where it says "no dumping." Her legs pulled apart in a kind of sexual pose. It's all different but it seems so -- the same. Artificial and <u>posed</u>... Something's wrong with it.
Then what do you need me for?
But it's a different m.o.
That's no surprise.
We've got another one.
I want a guard on you. I'm worried about leaving you alone.
He's going home. He slept over because I was a little anxious...
That's amazing. A whole new book, thought up in a minute. Very good. All I know how t do is get up, take a shower, and go to work. Hope, if he does another I'll nail the son of bitch, and they'll spell my name right in the newspaper. Where is Andy going?
Because I'm his damned pin-up girl! His, all of them! They know me. They're in prisons with libraries, they collect clippings, I'm their worthy opponent. You keep my name out of this.
Nobody knows you have anything to do with this case; nothing has been on TV or the news... Why would he want to get in <u>your</u> computer?
It's <u>anybody</u> connected to author- ity. They write, they even knock on your door. They're <u>fans</u>. It thrills them to flirt with getting caught.
Look at the sign. 'Hell'? In the Festival of Love? You make any sense in that?
She probably let him in the door without a thought. Where are their mothers?! Where are the mothers that are supposed to teach them to be wary and to tough and not afraid to fight?
I just came from her... here's what you haven't seen.
Maybe that's why you can't catch him. I <u>know</u> what she looks like -- the red-headed woman in my computer.
I don't look at pictures. I look at the <u>real thing</u>. I don't feel infected.
I am not going to look at any more pictures. They're like a disease. They get into my head. I can't get them out.
Show what? It's gone. He wrote a self destruct virus into the code, so it would only play until we try to copy it. Then it erased itself. Gone... Do you remember what you saw?
We'll show that to...
One officer already got killed trying to protect me. Please, just take it all away. Leave me alone.
I'm going to put a guard on your door.
It's too big a file to copy to a disk.
Can you make a copy we can show on our computers?
Look at the bottom of the screen. You see the icon with the arrow pointing left? Click on that... twice.
How do you know that?
Work with me.
If you knew why, you might know where to look for him. I don't envy you this; he's not done -- he's going to do them faster and faster to keep the adrenaline rush. Now, I've done what you asked me.
Why imitate a dead serial killer?
I sent Andy out on murder missions. For God's sake -- it's the Boston Strangler, Alber deSalvo. He used their own stockings to strangle them. Tied in a bow-knot.
How did you know they were stockings?
Where are the stockings he strangled them with?
The bodies have been carefully arranged... different positions, but somehow the same. The positions are brutal... yet quite... artful. It's like... a signature. He's proud of his accomplishments. There are early Picassos and late Picassos, but you always recognize the hand. He wants us to recognize <u>his</u> hand. I've seen this hand before... what are you hiding?
He felt remorse. He covered her.
How do you know that?
It was a lover or a husband. Someone close. Somebody who knew her and cared about her.
For months... last October.
Is it an ongoing case?
You can't go out lecturing? Tough shit. Women are dying. Where can I lay this stuff out?
Will you go. Andy, make them go.
Well, it's a hell of an apartment you got here. I'm living one step away from the projects, myself, but I get to go to work every day, wading in blood and guts. I guess the books you wrote about these sons of bitches paid off pretty good.
Inspector Halloran, that is so much bullshit, you don't like or admire me, but the beautiful part is I don't give a fuck. That's the upside of having a breakdown.
I think you are. I really admire everything you've done; it would be an honor to work with you, and we need all the help we can get, especially yours.
Oh, my God, no! I'm a clinical hysteric, with panic syndrome, and anxiety neurosis, agoraphobic, I'm afraid of everything, real and imaginary. I never leave this apartment now. Nobody ever comes here. I just wanted to get your attention. I write and I used to lecture on these crimes, but... I'm not competent.
Would you want to work with us on this?
Well, let's thank God you and Inspector Goetz are on the case, then.
Sugar and cream for Goetz; I take mine black. You're absolutely correct. The politicians don't want panic headlines spoiling the Festival of Love.
Yes, I did. Poor impulse control. The accounts of the firs two murders made it so clear they were the work of the same man, but you kept announcing they were unrelated. You'll never catch him that way.
<u>You</u> called <u>us</u>, Doctor Hudson.
You don't admire me. No police admire me. I got one of you killed. Why don't you say right out what you're here for?
I want to tell you it's a great honor to meet you and talk to you.
What calls? I haven't made any calls.
Because of your phone calls.
If he's not out, why are they here?
Is he out?
Ring the gong, he goes. Poor impulse control.
That's an opinion, not evidence...
I think this is number three...
Do you have any evidence to report, ma'am? Do you know any of the victims...
You're calling me a crank?
No, ma'am. This is no joke. And neither is tying up telephone lines to police with crank calls while people in trouble are trying to get through for help.
Inspector Halloran, Homicide. I'm in charge here.
Who is this?
You take it, hang on to it, it'll make you feel safer. Stay put.
They taught me at the FBI. I was very good at it. It scared me... I liked it.
You know how to use this?
I know, baby. I know.
He was in my apartment!
Why don't you shoot off the lock?
Open the door. Please.
Go and look for a note.
They all have one...
Is there a phone booth there?
Listen to me. Is there a gas station nearby?
Don't hang up!
She on the passenger side?
Yes. I have to go...
It's a woman shot in a car?
Will you stay? Please? I'm afraid to sleep... I don't want...<u>him</u>...in my head...
I'll get a locksmith.
Shhh. It's okay. Just breathe. I'll fix it...
Don't let go... I can't breathe... I'll die!
I'm falling! I'm going to fall!
Tell me what to do!
Well. Another time, then. I'll be all right. He's not going to attack me; what I' m rally afraid of is all in my own head, Ruben.
The problem for me is... you're in the witness category. Know what I mean?
No. I'm shy and I'm selective.
Are you always so bold?
You and MaryJane aren't lovers.
That would be much appreciated. Thanks.
We're through for the night, aren't we? You go on. Get some sleep. I'll stay until we can get a man out here and maybe catch a cab home.
MaryJane. You think that logic and police procedure, order and science and method will hold back the horrors of a world gone mad and the sickness of the night. I did once. But you know how he'll get caught? He'll have an accident, or some cop will get lucky. You can't catch him by being intelligent and working hard. Or the worst: there are dozens of women slaughtered in the most horrible way, month after month. The news stories grow more grotesque and bizarre and in the city people lock their doors and windows, and hurry home before dark. And then, one day, there are no more. What happened? Did he just stop? Get tired and disgusted and decide not to kill any more? Did he kill himself? Did he die in an auto accident? Or a fight. Or get sick and die? It's like the murderer walked off the edge of the earth. And you never know. But you keep asking yourself -- when you read about a new murder -- is he back?
MaryJane. We call her M.J.
I know 'Halloran.' What's the rest of it?
He's brilliant. This one is brilliant.
I just started it copying to tape, but the tape never ran. It just did that...
It's gone. The file's not here. What did you do?
Let me get a little action started here.
It's a game they like to play. Berkowitz -- "Son of Sam" -- hung around the crime scene, talking to the cops. This one's probably watching <u>you</u>, laughing at you.
He can get into my computer any time he likes! This is exactly the kind of thing I didn't want to have happen.
He's hacked into her Internet address. He's a hacker.
That computer's wired into INTERNET.
In the sixties. He's dead -- stabbed to death in prison.
The Boston Strangler, when was that...?
Somebody is imitating his m.o. Look for a plumber or carpenter or handyman; that's how deSalvo got in the door and caught them off guard.
You called us, Doctor, if you don't want to look at them here, how about downtown. I'll drive you down...
I don't want this. What are they?
Daryll Lee Cullum? I don't think so. If he's escaped we'd have the National Guard, cops'd be crawling through sewers. You'd have a guard on your front door.
You were the one that talked about moonbikes and called me a crank? Oh God, I <u>am</u>! Make them some coffee. Halloran, is it? Investigator Goetz? I had a crank call myself-- he said... I thought it might be Daryll Lee Cullum. I thought he might be out of prison.
He wants me, he doesn't care about her. Let me...
You've been very useful, Doctor, we appreciate all you've done, and now the professional will take over...
He's got Sergeant Halloran in there. He'll kill her the minute he sees or hears your people...
Just get out of your vehicle...
Merry, how... oh, Christ, of course, you had my phone tapped.
Ma'am, please get out of your vehicle...
We've put a tap on Dr. Hudson's phone. I know you won't mention it.
She is a writer, writing best selling books about serial killing. Giving lectures she's well-paid for. Her interests are not the interests of law enforcement.
How come you're so up on Dr. Hudson?
Who prescribes the brandy?
She takes tranquilizers her doctor prescribes.
We know Helen. She's not exactly a credible collaborator. Especially late in the day...
Sir, Doctor Hudson and I see a pattern develop...
I was just about to advise the Inspector here not to show Dr. Hudson the note.
Someone broke into her place last night. It wasn't connected to our case, but it shook her up pretty bad so I haven't...
We don't see too many lady homicide detectives. You have <u>my</u> respect. Have you discussed the note with Dr. Hudson?
Hello. I am Meryhew Saks. The song is called "Murder By Numbers." The performers are a group called The Police. Adam here... ... from Behavioral Science is working out exactly what this perpetrator is trying to telegraph in the note. This is an extremely complex case, and we have a lot of fancy theories floating around. We're not ruling out the possib- ility of three Copycat serial killers. We have Quantico working on graphology, the Washington lap is cloning DNA from the secretor. It's our feeling that the best lead we have is the two sperm samples in one of the victims. We have a team sweeping sperm banks. Now I want to say a few word to you local people. Your Commissioner asked for our assistance. The Bureau does not send us in on these cases to lord it over the local police. We couldn't catch up on what you people know if we had a year. We have nation-wide resources and hard state of the art forensic science; you have the local savvy. Together we can be unbeatable. Which one is Inspector Halloran?
Who came in after you?
Well, there's something missing in there. There was something around her neck when I came in there, but it's gone now.
Whatever it is, I'm gonna find out and sooner is a hell of lot better than later.
No. I didn't.
You touch anything, Mike? Pick up anything? Use the doorknob? I don't want to find your prints on anything later and you tell me you forgot to tell me.
I'm over here? What's your name, Officer?
Don't ever forget how good you are.
Just horseshit luck.
I heard. Good police work.
Who gives a fuck? In all the years I never seen you cry. You loved him.
You're in terrible trouble, Nikko.
Christ. I didn't lock the fucking drawer! You spend twenty years thinking some perp's gonna whack you... you'll crash your car... but what happens is, you fuck yourself... You can't imagine how many times I saw you two... your head together, I wish him dead. Every time... Want to hear something weird? I feel like I'd give my life to bring him back.
Quinn will be here any minute. What are you going to say?
Doped up kids all over town. Park was full of them last night. Very easy pickin'. Goetz's type.
If this is just the dump site, where did he do the job? Where did he pick her up?
God, you're cute when you're mad.
Yeah, you did that too. You earned what you got; don't shit on it, that's all I'm saying.
Don't put yourself down like that. I <u>never</u> used you. I worked my way up like a marine grunt!
Yeah. And you used that. Used <u>me</u>
Well, you outranked <u>me</u>, Nikko.
You're shitting ion your career. You outrank hi...
You got that right, Nikko, it's none of your business.
It's none of my business anymore...
Oh, I know.
Working late. You're a damn fool.
Maybe it's something you did in this life, Nikko...
Not what I meant; why <u>me</u>?
Because it's your job, that's all.
What am I wasting my time with this shit for?
I gotta get something to eat, I haven't eaten all day.
I'll talk to Conrad myself. I'll be in the jail when you wind this up...
Talk to Nikko...!
Don't try to lie, Ruben. You don't have the face for it. I need you to help interrogate the burglar in Hudson's place...
The woman was in shock. She was totally out on ranks. I stayed because I didn't want her to wake up alone in a place where she'd just been under attack. Stop that, you son of a bitch! The place wasn't secure. I was doing my goddamn job! And, for the <u>second time</u>, I slept in her living room.
Helen... excuse me, we...
She wants me to check the phone booth for a note.
Bunch of Swedish women. You're too young.
The woman's unstable. You could wind up with a harassment charge. <u>Anything</u>. You're like some horny little teenager.
It's against your rules that I try to help a witness who's scared shitless? Who's...
You damn well better start working on that impulse control. A woman who is implicated in this case? Someone who's practically a piece of <u>evidence</u>?
Excuse me? <u>Excuse me</u>?! What do you...
Now listen up, Ruben. You never, never, never mess with somebody <u>inside</u> the case!
Look at him, grandstanding...
Get the pictures, and casts of footprints.
Yeah, everything's different.
You're right. I can't stand that bastard. Sorry. This is something new. Not the same guy, that's for sure.
Ruben, my God, I ought to put you on report.
Spread out like she was sexually assaulted here.
Look at her legs.
She's blue as hell. No marks on her neck. Asphyxiated? not the same -- no ligature marks. Outdoors...
Needle marks, fresh, here. look at this...
What about her arms?
She didn't fight back, no hair or skin under her fingernails. I'm not seeing any bruises or contusions...
Quinn decided we should form a task force -- they're all one case, now. He wants all the senior detectives on it... She wasn't killed here.
Is Niccoletti <u>assigned</u> here?
Why would he send this to Helen Hudson...
You got a tape backup, yeah, here lemme copy it on tape...
Let's get out of here...
You said you don't give a fuck and that's the beauty of a breakdown? This doesn't look like not giving a fuck, you know that?
Tell it to your shrink.
I like women like that!
Honest to God, Ruben!
Nada. Lemme make the call.
He's just mad he let me keep the espresso machine. We heard from Doctor Hudson?
What's wrong with him?
Order Chinese for us and meet me the library? Anything but beef.
You came in there with this attitude...
Sure. She likes <u>you</u>, Rube. She likes the way you move. She sure as hell isn't in love with me.
Snotty neurotic bitch...
It's mostly done, they got nobody in common, the three of them... No mutual friends -- the Landlady says nobody was ever there, she never saw her with anybody.
Get Mercer to run the medical, dental, legal bills, laundry and dry cleaning receipts, extermin- ators, mailmen, grocery and drugstore deliveries, handymen, plumbers...
You know, M.J., when I watch you shoot, I realize I've got a little problem with my stance... could you just move over here and critique my legs?
You're good enough you'll never have to kill anyone. I joined the cops to save lives, not waste them.
I'm sure she thinks it is. Aren't you at least interested in which one it is?
Yeah, but she had divine guidance.
My third grade teacher at the convent shot better than that.
No, she can come in tomorrow... gonna want to know a lot of things...
She's in no shape to give her statement tonight...
That was Bundy. He killed forty of them, identical, long hair, parted in the middle, alike as Barbie dolls. ...this is hopeless. Let's try to get time for a police spokesman to appear on college radio and TV hookups and broadcast a warning?
So I'm maybe gonna lose three good cops? You fucked up on this occasion, but don't be so hard on yourself. There's something I want you to think about. The book says if you use your gun, use it to kill, that's what it's meant to do. You tried to pick this punk off with fancy shooting, to keep him alive. To what end? You're not willing to kill, you can't be a cop. Go get drunk. I am.
You want mine, too? You take his, you take mine. I'm the one fucked it up...
Give me Ruben back...
Saks. If he knew you did that! They're all asking me, 'what is she doing,' as it is.
Or the F.B.I.?
You have no authority to make a deal like that. That' s for the D.A...
I'm gonna drop charges on the break-and-enter at Hudson's...
How'd you get in on the deal?
You got a suspect...
The prowler in Hudson's apartment turns out to have a meeting with a suspect...
I gotta have Ruben, and a...
I didn't want the Illigals, I wanted just the bastards dumping them in the harbor. What's keeping those bums at Immigration? Nightmare in here...
Give him <u>that</u>pompous son of a bitch.
Just, I need results. And -- I am short-handed. Who else am I gonna give him?
If this is a first step in kicking me off the case, just tell me, to my face, sir, don't waste time being diplomatic.
Teach both of them a lesson in cooperation and self-discipline.
What does this mean? Now we got the FBI, my team is expendable? I'm working my ass off, is anybody listening? Why Ruben, anyway? He and Nikko don't even get on together...
M.J., I'm going to have to borrow Ruben. The alien-smuggling thing in Chinatown is going down tomorrow night and Jack's kid got hit by a car. I gotta give Ruben to Nikko.
Because I think I'm wrong.
What the hell you need her for?
Where you going?
I'm sorry it had to come to your attention. I am dealing with it.
Okay, now what about your sidekick punching my favorite detective? What the hell is going on? You got no discipline in your operation.
You're damn right I do.
Christ. How old are you? You sure you want to be in this line of work?
It's not the same guy. It should be a self-solver. No bow around the neck, left and body outdoors, completely different. The others were housewives, secretaries, he talked his way inside, killed them in their own living room or bed- or bathroom. This one didn't have a husband or a boyfriend, no family, temp waitress, 3 arrests for misdemeanor dope offenses, DUI, asphyxiation probably from a plastic bag over her head. Sexually assaulted. The others weren't molested that way. We're waiting for the sperm tests...
So what have we got?
With the F.B.I. there's no such thing as a little help. They bury you with help. Explain to me about this virus, no don't tell me about the virus. Thing is, you saw it, the pictures.
We could use a little help.
What? I talk like a cop, this is the way I talk. I can't believe this guy. Saks. He's a Deputy Assistant Director of the F.B.I. "Let me help you!"
Or for some new nutcase to copycat the copycat.
So. Do we tell the media and hope for somebody to come forward with information?
I know. Get out here.
I'm checking out anybody who lives like DeSalvo. Records of arrests for rape, especially by a man wearing green. Checking out psychiatric hospitals for his personality profile. Cross check- ing names from arrests for sexual offenses, public fondling. If they've got a German wife. We can keep cops working on this kind of junk for years, and this guy's going to hit again, soon.
Who've I got to beat up except the messenger? Does this give us anything to go on?
Don't swear at me because we got problems. I'm just giving you the news. I went to a Catholic school; I'll tell you what they teach. On the knuckles they teach.
Yessir. I have reflected on that, sir. Which explains my gushing deference to you, sir.
You ever reflect how this big explosion in dead women coincides with the flowering of women's lib?
That's always your privilege, sir.
How about I put Nikko on it?
Anybody in this department ever worked a serial killer case? She's the expert. I need help.
I'm <U>telling</u> you. Don't you <u>ever</u> address me publicly in that tone. You'll work what and <u>who</u> I tell you to work.
Would you step outside, Sergeant?
What clues? I'm going to work Helen Hudson.
What are you looking at that for? Helen Hudson. Work the clues.
The same as the firs two. Definitely a serial.
There was no sperm.
We're gonna have a bunch of clapped out old hippies blissing on the Grateful Dead! Sleeping in the park, smoking dope and sticking tulips up their ass.
This is the anniversary of the summer of love and your city fathers have declared a Festival of Love. The Mayor and Chamber of Commerce don't want TV announcing killers on the loose.
You didn't say serial killer and I didn't say serial killer.
I said you were...
Am I in charge of this thing? Or not.
I tagged the goddamned stocking. It ain't lost. We're sequestering that evidence. That's the trap some son of a bitch is going to fall into...
You messed with the scene.
We're going to review all the evidence carefully before making any statement...
Inspector, will you confirm somebody is copying the Boston Strangler? This is the fourth, is that correct?
What's this about the Boston Strangler, M.J.?
You messed with the evidence.
... third Bay Area woman has been strangled, but the police continue to deny that this is the work of one killer. Lt. Thomas Quinn declares that the murders will be treated as unrelated crimes, unless new evidence...
I just got here. Talk to you later...
...confirm this third murder adds up to a pattern? Do we have a serial killer on the loose in the city?
I just got here myself, Susan.
What's going down with the sting in Chinatown? That gonna be off your plate in a week or what?
I don't want the job. Don't do that to her. She's worked too damned hard for it.
Then you shoulda known she wasn't buying. She was just long-term leasing' you. Ah, Nickie. Except for that rare twenty-second twitch, there ain't nothin' about sex I don't hate. But of course, I'm Irish. Plus I got <u>real</u> problems. I'm worried I might have to put you in over M.J. There's something going on here, the Commissioner is targeting her now, I can't leave a woman in that position. But the thing is, how can I move <u>you</u> in, if you go on acting like a teenage asshole?
She knows I'm Catholic! She never mentioned divorce! Not once!
Don't give me six years! You never divorced Patty, did you? So what'd you expect from M.J.?
We were together six years, sir!
She left you, Nikko. She's not your responsibility. She takes very good care of herself. If she wants to romance the kid, it ain't your business. Your business is to snap out of it.
He's not treating her right...
That's what I don't know. Why would you lie? That's the problem... I can't understand why anyone would lie.
She lies all the time. Why would I say I fed her if I didn't?
She doesn't lie! You sure you fed her?
Yes, I fed her. If she says she's hungry, she's lying to you. Again.
See, now you've annoyed her. You know she doesn't like you to touch me. Does she, widdle wee fing! Wuhve you so much! Did you feed her?
You know I don't like to watch talk shows by myself. Where're you?
Why don't we save it for later? It's almost time for Letterman.
Put in the Kevin Costner.
I think he'll be waiting for us at the airport
Not yet. It's only beginning.
I'd like to go back. James...
The traffic... where is everyone? They've all gone away.
One of my suitors.
One of your suitors?
I wasn't driving. I'd left the car in the parking lot at the airport. Could it have been deliberate?
My last lesson's next week. James... my car...
I thought that was you, up there.
I'd better come with you, then. Are you sure you can drive?
At home. I couldn't face all this traffic.
You'd better drive him. He's a bit shaky. I'll follow in my car. Where is yours?
Vaughan isn't interested in pedestrians.
They're questioning Vaughan about an accident near the airport. Some pedestrian... they think he was run over intentionally.
Is he circumcised? Can you imagine what his anus is like? Describe it to me. Would you like to sodomize him? Would you like to put your penis right into his anus, thrust it up his anus? Tell me, describe it to me. Tell me what you would do. How would you kiss him in that car? Describe how you'd reach over and unzip his greasy jeans, then take out his penis. Would you kiss it or suck it right away? Which hand would you hold it in? Have you ever sucked a penis? Do you know what semen tastes like? Have you ever tasted semen? Some semen is saltier than others. Vaughan's semen must be very salty...
I think it's badly scarred too. From a motorcycle accident.
Have you seen his penis?
No. But when he's in that car...
Would you like to tuck him, though? In that car?
He's very pale. Covered with scars.
Do you find him attractive?
He must have tucked a lot of women in that huge car of his. It's like a bed on wheels. It must smell of semen...
Maybe I am a little. James, I've got to leave for the office. Are you going to be all right?
You're not envious?
I'm amazed that she'll let you drive her.
I thought she might come along. Handling a car again might be more tiring than I imagine.
I've never really noticed. Is Renata going with you?
Is the traffic heavier now? There seem to be three times as many cars as there were before the accident.
How can you drive? James... your legs. You can Barely walk.
I can't sit on this balcony forever. I'm beginning to feel like a potted plant.
Renata tells me you're going to rent a car.
No, I couldn't. I feel too close to her.
What about his wife? The woman doctor? Have you visited her yet?
I wish I had. They bury the dead so quickly - they should leave them lying around for months.
You should have gone to the funeral.
Minute flecks were spattered across the seat and steering wheel. The instrument panel was buckled inwards, cracking the clock and the speedometer dials. The cabin was deformed, and there was dust and glass and plastic flakes everywhere inside. The carpeting was damp and stank of blood and other body and machine fluids.
After being bombarded endlessly by road- safety propaganda, it's almost a relief to have found myself in-an actual accident.
It's about time.
The sergeant asked me to identify it. He didn't believe you'd gotten out alive.
Have you seen it?
My car, not yours. Yours is a complete wreck. The police dragged it to the pound behind the station.
What!? They brought the car here?
Outside in the visitors, car park.
Where's the car?
He was a chemical engineer with a food company.
And her husband? What was he?
The other man, the dead man, his wife is a doctor - Dr. Helen Remington. She's here, somewhere. As a patient, of course. Maybe you'll find her in the hallways tomorrow on your walk.
Well, yes. You're getting out of bed tomorrow. They want you to walk.
That's going well, then.
Yes. From Wendel. To celebrate, the license approval for our air-charter firm. I forgot to tell you.
Is that a gift from Wendel? It has an aeronautical feel to it.
I'll listen for you buzzing over.
If I groundloop during my flying lesson on Saturday you might wake up and find me next to you.
They consider this to be the airport hospital. This ward is reserved for air- crash victims. The beds are kept waiting.
Not a lot of action here.
There, that's better.
I've been thinking about that, about you and Karen.
Poor darling. What can I do about Karen? How can I arrange to have her seduce me? She desperately needs a conquest.
We were interrupted. I had to go back to the set...
No. What about your camera girl? Did she come?
Did you come?
In the private aircraft hangar. Anybody could have walked in.
Where were you?
Yes. They felt like traffic accidents.
And did you fantasize that Vaughan was photographing all these sex acts? As though they were traffic accidents?
Yes. I didn't plan it that way.
And you had sex with all of these men in cars? Only in cars?
The junior pathologist at Ashford Hospital. Then the husband of a colleague of mine, then a trainee radiologist, then the service manager at my garage.
Please finish your story.
I don't know. You can never be sure with Vaughan. This is his show.
Is this part of the act or are they really hurt?
When I first met Vaughan, he was a specialist in international computerized traffic systems. I don't know what he is now.
Oh yes. I thought he was a medical photographer, doing some sort of accident research. He wanted every conceivable detail about our crash.
That's Vaughan. He talked to you at the hospital.
Who is that? The announcer. Do I know him?
That's the point. Besides, I know I can give something now that I wasn't remotely aware of before. It's not a matter of duty so much as of commitment.
Isn't that rather too close...?
The Road Research Laboratory? Where they simulate car crashes?
We sat in B massive traffic jam under an off-ramp. I don't think we moved more than fifty yards. I'm thinking of taking up a new job with the Road Research Laboratory. They need a medical officer. The salary is larger something I've got to think about now. There's a certain moral virtue in being materialistic, I'm beginning to feel. Well, it's a new approach for me, in any case.
I've found that I enjoy burying myself in heavy traffic. I like to look at it. Yesterday I hired a taxi driver to drive me around for an hour. "Anywhere", I said.
Are we imagining it?
It's much worse now. You noticed that, did you? The day I left the hospital I had the extraordinary feeling that all these cars were gathering for some special reason I didn't understand. There seemed to be ten times as much traffic.
Look at all this traffic. I'm not sure I can deal with it.
Do you want a cigarette? I started to smoke at the hospital. It's rather stupid of me.
I work in the immigration department there.
So - why the airport?
I'll wear a bloody kimono if I want to.
I take it you're not wearing white to reassure them.
Not yet - though not soon enough for some people, I've already found. A death in the doctor's family makes the patients doubly uneasy.
The airport? Why? Are you leaving?
Haven't I? To the airport, if you could.
You haven't told me where we're going.
Can I give you a lift? I somehow find myself driving again.
Were you badly hurt? I think we saw each other at the hospital. I don't want the car. In fact, I was appalled to find that I have to pay a small fee to have it scrapped.
I don't think we should have come here. I'm surprised the police don't make it more difficult.
They said it was here. They told me this morning.
It's not here. Maybe the police are still holding it. Their forensic people...
After this sort of thing, how do people manage to look at a car, let alone drive one? I'm trying to find Charles's car.
No, thanks. I'll go with Vaughan.
I'm going to leave now. Do you want a lift?
Hard to say.
What does he want from you?
You're not jealous, are you? You have to understand... Helen and I had this strange, intense... experience together.
Serious. But you'll have to take your new friend, the female crash-test dummy. She dropped it off for you.
I suspect it involves reenactments of famous car crashes. You know, Jayne Mansfield, James Dean, Albert Camus...
Really? What kind of exhibition is it?
A complimentary ticket for a special stunt-driving exhibition. Definitely not part of the big auto show. There's a map in the packet and a note requesting you be discrete about the location.
What is it?
I can drive.
Can you drive?
Are you still involving me in your crash?
You were the last one I saw just before the accident. Do you remember? We made love.
I saw the blood. It looks like motor oil.
There's still a patch of blood there on the road. Did you see it?
I'm sure the police would make an exception in your case.
Are we allowed to park here?
Where are you?
I need to see you, Ballard. I need to talk to you about the project.
You're right, Ballard. There's an all- night car-wash in the airport service area.
He must have driven through a pool of blood. If the police stop you again, they may impound the car while they have the blood analyzed. Vaughan kneels beside him and inspects the smears of blood.
A crude sci-fi concept that floats on the surface and doesn't threaten anybody. I use it to test the resilience of my potential partners in psychopathology.
What about the reshaping of the human body by modern technology? I thought that was your project.
It's the future, Ballard, and you're already part of it. For the first time, a benevolent psychopathology beckons towards us. For example, the car crash is a fertilizing rather than a destructive event - a liberation of sexual energy that mediates the sexuality of those who have died with an intensity impossible in any other form. To fully understand that, and to live that... that is my project.
It's very... satisfying. I'm not sure I understand why.
The case could be made.
Is that why you drive this car? I take it that you see Kennedy's assassination as a special kind of car-crash?
No, I mean a crash with a history. Camus' Facel Vega, or Nathaniel Nest's station wagon, Grace Kelly's Rover 3500. Fix it just enough to get it rolling. Don't clean it, don't touch anything else.
You could get your wish at any moment.
I've always wanted to drive a crashed car.
It's something we're all intimately involved in: The reshaping of the human body by modern technology.
What exactly is your project, Vaughan? ~ book of crashes? A medical study? A sensational documentary? Global traffic?
I live in my car. This is my workshop.
Do you live here? With Seagrave?
It's not the police. It's the Department of Transport. Internal politics. It's a joke. They have no idea who we really are
Why are the police taking this all so seriously?
I have a going-away gesture for you, too.
It was just a little going-away gesture.
OK, good. That's good. Thanks an awful lot for everything, and for coming down here to see me off.
So, we'll meet every Tuesday and Friday. And if you have any kind of emergency, you can page me.
Are you saying I'm through with therapy?
I think it's about that time, Letty. The charges against you have been dropped, the drugs have evened out and you seem to be dealing with your life quite well.
Then, you should call.
I thought about calling, but I want to wait until I know when I'll be out.
Have you been in contact with the principal about your job?
But what I really can't believe is that I'm starting to actually miss work.
All I want you to do is think about what's best for you. Really think about it.
First you tell me to do what I want to, then you tell me to stop.
I don't want to hear anymore.
Drugs can help suppress symptoms. But lots of patients stop taking them when they're on their own because the side effects are so harsh. And, Michael's condition is often worsened by periods of stress. He's been in and out of...
Look, I know he's almost through with treatment here. And, he's on medication.
Then that's even more reason to listen. Look, schizophrenics tend to withdraw from reality. They experience emotional disturbances that result in personality changes.
I don't need a lecture. I care about Michael.
Go ahead and put the guard back up, Letty. But you need to know what you're dealing with.
I know Michael's a schizophrenic, and Mrs. Hallstrom's manic- depressive, and John Lockyer has episodes of psychosis, and I heard a rumor that you suffer from delusions of grandeur.
What about Michael? Do you know the extent of his...
I'm a grown woman, Dr. Emlee. I can take care of myself.
Well, Letty, this does present a liability issue for the hospital.
I couldn't really say anything because of that fraternizing rule.
I miss Beast a lot, too.
The question, Letty, is how are you feeling?
We'll see about adjusting the dosage if that doesn't clear in the next How are other things going?
The medicine's still bothering me. It feels like I have cotton wrapped around my brain.
I think in the spirit of group therapy, it's beneficial for each of us to open ourselves up to the others.
Do we have to talk about this?
I don't think you understand. I won't wait.
We discourage family visits for the first 48 hours after an emotional trauma like the kind you've experienced.
I want to see my mother immediately.
I apologize for the inconvenience, but I must ask you some...
What kind of place is this?
Psychologist, therapist, whatever.
I'm afraid Lhe's not a doctor.
Yeah, and a dimple.
This doctor, was he tall, with dark hair?
Well, I don't have hallucinations. Honest.
I'm the only doctor making rounds this morning.
It's hospital policy...
I did this already.
Hello, Letitia. I'm Dr. Emlee, and I have some questions to ask you...
I know. I know.
I was so sure. I really thought it would work. We have plans, Ruth.
I can't. I can't see him there.
Do you want to go see him? I'll take you if you want to go.
But what am I going to do?
You don't have to make any decisions tonight.
Oh, Ruthie, what am I going to do?
I ruined your wedding night.
You did the right thing.
That's thanks to all your help.
I don't think people even noticed. I thought the ceremony was perfect.
I didn't say...
What's his name, Letty?
Oh, no, of course not.
Do we have to talk wedding details?
And then the gold scroll or the black Romanesque print?
What do you think?
Mom and I fought for 20 minutes over whether we should go with ecru invitations or brilliant white.
I can hardly wait 'til you're free. Planning the wedding without you has been a disaster.
That settles it. I'm never leaving.
Loaned you. And it's only 'til you get out of here.
I can't believe you finally gave me the shirt.
I'll be back before you can say souffle.
Letty, dinner's almost ready. The souffle...
No, no. They've got to be Puglia olives, packed in a light brine with a flavor that doesn't overpower the palate.
It'll be fine.
Sage, rosemary... Les Herbes.
What's all the dreck?
What's the matter?
What about the souffle? Has that gone in?
Paul, can you hand me the olives? Ruth, I need you to, what was it?
How can I help?
Do you think I should?
Go on, Letty. I want to see it on you.
Look, Mom, I think I've found the dress.
You look beautiful.
What about this one?
Thanks so much for planning it, Letty. Jake's really looking forward to it.
Everything's ready for tomorrow night--except the artillery.
What about the engagement party?
Yeah, everything's under control.
But everything's OK?
Things have been kind of stressful lately.
I'd have to see it on.
What do you think of this one?
She said she'd be here at 10.
Where's the old bag I sometimes call Mommy?
Yeah, it'll be fun.
And the party?
You know what, Ruthie? I better get back to my class, OK?
Maybe, though. Maybe it would work. I could throw you an engagement party maybe.
Mom and Dad? At dinner together? Are you crazy?
Oh, wait a minute, now I see where you're going.
You always throw the best dinner parties, Letty.
Maybe if we had them both to dinner or something.
I'll talk to her, and to Dad, too. A few wisely-chosen guilt tactics and they'll be ours.
Mom won't miss your wedding. She'll come around. I promise she will.
She says she won't even come if Dad brings Monica.
Well, my theory is that people can really enjoy math, but they lose interest...
No, really. Tell me about the promotion.
There's nothing to tell.
Just go ahead and tell us.
Me? Nothing. Tell me more about the job.
What's up with you?
Just remember that I love him.
Don't be fresh.
I'm going to take that as an honest effort at being open minded.
He's been looking everywhere for weeks, Mom. It's not that easy after you've been locked away.
I will, Dear. I promise. Why McDonald's?
Michael just got a job. Couldn't you congratulate him?
A deal's a deal.
Not even if it's something positive?
Mom, we agreed. You can visit, but you're not allowed to mention Michael.
I've already made arrangements.
I'm so thankful you'll be leaving next week. If you want me to pick you up, I will.
It's good exercise, Mom.
Must you walk so quickly?
And if I want to smoke, I'll fucking smoke.
I'm only looking out for you.
Mom, look, if I want to dump Paul, I'll dump him. If I want to screw Michael or live with him or marry him, then I'll do that.
Don't forget that Paul's a promising young attorney who loves you very much...
I hear this Michael fellow is schizophrenic.
When did you start smoking?
I haven't had a crush since I was
Just think, pretty soon, we'll be doing all these wedding preparations for you. Of course, if that's what you still want. Ruthie told me some silly story about a crush on some boy here.
We aren't allowed to wear jewelry in here, Mom.
I was thinking either the peach moire or cream damask.
Oh, OK, well, better to choose the table cloths first anyway.
We haven't. I wanted to talk that over with you, too.
Which flowers did you order?
You're looking good. A little thin, but good.
You too, Mom.
It's so good to see you, Sweetheart.
As soon as Dr. Emlee says.
I'll see you soon.
Paul said he'd call the school. And your father thinks he's convinced the guard not to press charges as long as you get help.
And my class. It'll be hard to find a good substitute. And what about my math program?
Ruth's already taken him home.
But what about Beast? Who'll...?
We all agree with the doctor, Dear. He thinks it's safer for you to stay here for a while.
Maybe I should talk about this with Ruth, or Paul.
I just want to go home. Can we go home now?
Everyone says it's the best facility in the area for this sort of thing.
I'm so glad to see you. You can't believe the people in here. They've got patients posing as doctors...
I've talked to Doctor Emlee, and he says...
Mom, I was there, and I just, I was so... They didn't have the olives, and I, I got so upset. I don't know how it happened.
Oh, Letty, what happened?
I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
I'm here, Sweetheart. I'm here. It's going to be OK.
Can I get you a glass of champagne?
I gather he's late as usual.
Especially with a promotion in the offing.
Paul could pop the question at any time.
No, not yet. But you know Paul. He's sure to get it.
Has Paul heard about his promotion?
You've only known Jake a few months.
Tell us every detail.
My goodness. A wedding. My goodness.
Are you sure, Dear?
Not now, but maybe later, if they like the program.
Will you get time off to do that?
I'll be running it three days a week, and...
How wonderful, darling. What does that mean for you?
You've been so great. I just feel a lot clearer about things.
I guess so. I think that's right.
You can only do what feels best to you now.
It's OK. It's good to let it out.
I don't mean to go on and on like this.
I understand you just got engaged. Maybe that's where we should start.
To talk? Well, OK, that might be good.
If you feel lonely, or need to talk, all you have to do is say so.
I don't know why you feel you have to lie, Letty.
Mottled really. Green and red.
It had this red spot on its back.
Sounds awful. I guess we better check it out.
It's got a green dot on its back. I can't go to sleep with it watching me.
There's a spider in my room.
Letty, you should be in bed.
Just eat whatever you want. This will give you a chance to meet some people.
I'm really not that hungry.
You should go.
I guess I should go now.
I will. And you make sure you take care of yourself.
Just promise me you'll be OK, OK?
Would that really be such a good idea for either of us?
How about something better? Like a kiss.
Don't you have a magic trick or something to make this easier?
That's the best idea I've heard in a long time.
Maybe we could just run away to Tahiti and live on the beach.
I love you too, Letty. I love you, too.
I love you so much.
I know I don't want to lose you. I don't think I could stand it.
What do you want to do?
What are we going to do?
Oh, God, Michael, I know. Why does everything have to be so hard?
I didn't mean for any of this to happen.
I'm sorry. I didn't come here to blame you.
I don't know. I don't fucking know.
Well then why'd it happen?
But that wasn't me. I didn't mean to do that.
Someone has to take care of you right now, Michael. You tore up the apartment. You stopped taking your medications.
Like I've told you before I don't want you taking care of me.
I've been thinking I could try to visit you at night after work, and then there'd be more time on weekends to see...
Yeah, the plans.
And all the plans we have.
I sure know what that feels like.
It's hard to know where to start.
I guess so.
I guess we need to talk.
Michael, calm down. Please. It's OK.
Don't upset my Mom. Don't you upset my Mom.
I think I should call someone.
Silly, silly, silly.
Michael, take it easy.
Silly? Silly am I?
I didn't talk to her about medications, Michael. Don't be silly.
Why'd you tell?
What do you mean not taking your meds?
We both talked to her, Michael. And your dad.
I saw you talking to my Mom.
Always the drugs.
What is it? Are you OK?
It wasn't exactly a lie.
Bye, Uncle Cort. What's with the lie?
How about a dance?
When he could get time off from the restaurant business.
Something like that.
You don't have to know all this by Saturday. It took me years.
Oh. And, Harry, he's the one who likes magic?
No, that's Aunt Connie. Lily is the one who looks like a hooker.
Aunt Lily is the one who married your father's cousin?
How may I help you?
I got worried. Are you OK?
Hey, Letty. Mrs. Mayer.
You're going to miss the Top Ten.
I think you know I'd love you even more in a blue polyester cap.
Just promise you'll love me even if I end up in a job where I have to wear a blue polyester cap.
You don't have to take care of me, you know.
That's OK. We can call and reschedule in the morning.
I couldn't even face that one.
The restaurant, too?
Four interviews. Four no-gos.
Big restaurant interview tomorrow.
Are you OK?
I think I should go home.
You go ahead and relax. I'll cook.
Would you mind if we just called it an early night?
You got wine. That's great.
The store was busy.
Promise. As long as we have steak.
It doesn't matter. It'll work out.
Who ever said sanity was fun?
Yeah. How was the job search?
I bombed. It's either work in the office or nothing.
That's Mr. Beast to you.
This must be Beast.
Gosh, Letty, this is a great place.
You've got one hell of a great body.
Sounds good. Oh, and Letty?
You, too. Kick ass today.
I'll see you tonight.
I'm supposed to meet the principal in half an hour.
I'll be forced to tickle you.
Did I get spaghetti sauce on my face?
It's sex time.
You're so wrong.
I like it. But Headlines are better.
How can you not like the Top 10 List?
Out? Are you kidding? I've got all the fixings here.
What do you say we go out to dinner to celebrate?
I love your apartment.
Do you like it?
You've got to see the kitchen first.
Let's try out the bed.
I was tired of watching what everyone else wants to watch. Now we can watch two shows at once.
It's TV heaven.
Very trendy. Let's see the rest.
Throw pillows, Letty. The sales lady said they're the latest thing.
I love the pillows.
You like it?
Open up. I want to see.
This is it -- 3B. Check it out.
I've heard the mission in Santa Barbara is the place to go.
Aren't you ever quiet?
Aren't you supposed to throw a bouquet or something?
List schmist. You'll remember.
I better make a list.
First off, you'll need to go to Target. And, let's see, what should you buy?
No, I need some serious household advice.
All over. Did you see your new apartment?
So, it's over?
I saw Paul leaving. Did you do the dirty deed?
And did you go to the mission?
Not a one.
So there were no problems?
I was brilliant, or at least boringly sane.
Tell me all.
Great. I came to tell you to break a leg, and to give you this for good luck.
Oh, right. I'm ready. How do I look?
John and Nurse Gates are waiting for you.
But I do. I love you, too.
It's OK. You don't have to say anything.
You're right. I guess I was projecting. What I should have said is, "It's a good thing I love you."
Your family just met me.
It's a good thing my family loves you.
Then it's over.
I don't like lamb.
Tell the doctor.
I have a terrible confession.
How can you even mention Spaghetti- O's after eating Grandma Rosa's dinner tonight?
And we'd eat Spaghetti-O's in bed from the can.
I'd like to drink a bottle of red wine with you and then make love to you and spend the whole night together. And we'd get up in the morning and spend hours lounging around and reading the paper.
What else would you do?
That's where I always go when I get out.
The mission up in Santa Barbara.
I just want to see Beast. Where would you go?
You must have thought about it. Everyone does.
Break up? They wish.
Why in the world did you let me start talking in metaphors? That's no way for us to break up.
My Grandma Rosa says that some trees get planted in rich top soil, and they grow right up to the sun, tall and straight. Other trees, they start as seeds in the crevices between rocks so they have to twist and bend to reach the light. But even though they end up crooked, they're still trees, just like the straight ones.
I'm starting to think that everyone's crazy to some extent.
I wish I could have seen that.
Sure. But I took out a whole grocery store.
What are the delusions like?
Really, though. My thoughts go haywire sometimes.
Schizophrenic recidivism marked by hallucinations and paranoid delusions.
What's my rap?
Wow. I'm bad news.
I had to sneak by the guards to get here. They say you're highly unstable, have a depressive personality, and may hold back my own recovery.
Really? Me too.
I'm not allowed to see you anymore.
Back-to-back sessions with the shrink.
Thanks. Where've you been all day?
A rose is a rose.
The lady knows this is a dandelion.
A daisy for the lady.
Rendezvous at the closet in 30.
Don't be ridiculous.
Nervous? Scared? Worried you're not fit for a caper of epic proportions?
No rounds for another three hours.
We'll get caught.
We're supposed to be asleep.
And I'm not covering for you when you sneak out to call Dominos.
I won't do your portion of kitchen cleanup.
A small price.
For a price.
OK, OK, I'll give it back.
Really, this isn't funny.
The left one.
Enough with the abracadabra.
Guess which hand.
What have you done with the ring?
So are you engaged, or what?
It was romantic. He's very romantic.
Very romantic setting.
He asked me to marry him.
Was it bad news--the visit from Peter?
Finally. I was getting tired of watching him try every night.
John even managed to lob a load of mashed potatoes into Mrs. Hallstrom's milk.
I wasn't hungry.
You missed out on some great broccoli florets at dinner.
I've already checked it out 17 times.
But you're checking it out.
What are you looking to read?
I'm not the one who's masquerading as a doctor. I'm not the one who's, who's...
Stop acting like you're someone special. You're just like the rest of us.
You have no right, no right to take the worst thing that's ever happened to me and make it into some kind of game.
Don't take it personally.
Who do you think you are?
It's no big deal. We all compare.
You took bets on my diagnosis?
Hey there. They're showing "Groundhog Day" if you...
That must be really difficult.
A while, I guess.
Is this really important? Because I don't think it's a problem.
What if it's got a pattern?
How do you sort it--by lace and cotton?
Sometimes my food, and my clothes, and my underwear.
Yes? Go right ahead.
What about patterns? Do you find yourself checking and re-checking locks? Or washing your hands over and over again?
Let me shift gears here a minute... Do you ever hear voices that other people don't hear or see things they don't?
Chair, cup and ball.
It's OK. It's not a pass-fail kind of thing.
No, 79. Sorry, this makes me nervous.
I know this can be a real drag, but the attending physician on day shift is required to do his own prelim exam when a patient is admitted during the night.
I answered these questions last night.
First off, Letty, can you tell me where you are?
Do you mind if I call you Letitia?
Sure, I understand.
I've got a deposition that I really need to get cracking on, so if you don't mind...
I'm really sorry.
I think I've heard this speech before.
Our relationship meant a lot to me, too, Paul. But it's over. And Michael being in the hospital doesn't really change things.
I heard your friend was back in the hospital.
I heard about your friend.
I start on Monday.
How's work going? Are you back at school?
Oh, none. None. I completely understand what was going on.
I'm just glad there aren't any hard feelings.
I'm glad you agreed to see me.
No way. You keep the ring. You'll come to your senses.
Here's the ring.
You're going to throw away our life together for some shared experience with a looney-tune that you misguidedly think is love?
I love him.
Of all the crazy things. I understood when you dropped out of law school. And during this whole mess, I've tried to be supportive. But, really, Letty, what can you be thinking?
He's a patient here.
It's a doctor, isn't it? That's unethical. I'll have him rung up on malpractice charges so fast his head will spin.
Have you been seeing another teacher?
It doesn't matter who.
I've met someone else.
Whoa. Whoa. Have really loved me? Letty, it's natural to be nervous. But we're going to work through our problems.
I don't mean to hurt you. I know this is a terrible thing. And I have really loved you.
That's a load off my mind.
You can tell me anything. Do you want to postpone the wedding? Is it too much pressure?
I need to tell you something, and I'm not sure how.
What's so urgent? You've got me worried.
Of course. Yes. I will. I do.
So will you?
Sure. We'll save the formal announcement for when you're out. I already told your mother. I hope you don't mind.
So, what do you say, Let?
No, you've done a perfect job.
It's, it's really nice, Paul.
I hope you like it. It's a Marquis cut, 1.5 carats. They had one with emeralds around it, but this was simpler, more classic in its lines. Letty?
Or be up past ten or fraternize with other patients.
I had to smuggle it in here. I guess you're not really supposed to have jewelry.
I just wish we'd done it sooner.
You don't have to say anything else. I've known for a while that this was coming.
Exactly. It's time to make decisions.
I know. We can't just keep going through the motions.
I talked to Ruth a little bit, and I think it's about time...
So, I've been thinking a lot...
Especially this last year.
This has been really difficult, this whole thing.
Yes, I suppose so.
I think we need to talk about some things.
Of course not, no. Is that why you're here?
Something you did?
I hope it wasn't something I did.
That's a big question.
Are you all right?
Yeah, I guess it's all right.
It's prettier here than I thought it would be.
I think you're overreacting.
I'm going to the store.
Can you loan me a 20?
What are you doing?
You know what I think we need? Martinis. How about martinis to celebrate?
You just need to get more organized. L
Of course it will. Remember the big talent show you planned last year? And what about the Christmas benefit when Santa canceled at the last minute? But you still pulled it off.
I don't think so.
Come on, Letty. It'll get done.
No, I can't. I've already convinced both Mom and Dad to come.
You can get out of the dinner.
It's just I've got those parent conferences, and I'm supposed to set up the math program by next week. And shopping for Ruth's dress and that, that engagement dinner.
No, it's not like that.
Maybe you ought to see a doctor.
I'm sorry. I'm just...I'm so tired lately.
Forget I asked.
Paul, I just can't go. Is that OK with you or am I committing some horrible crime?
But what about that math project?
Won't it be hard for them to get a substitute this late?
I don't feel like going to work today.
You don't have a fever.
I'm calling in sick.
What are you doing? You're going to be late.
Sure. Of course.
But I thought if you don't mind, you could listen and see how I come across?
Oh, ok. Maybe.
Actually, I need to review the deposition questions tonight. Maybe tomorrow?
I mean tonight.
I was thinking dinner on Friday with James and Meg at the Saint Mark.
Huntley told me today that if I come through on the Benton deposition, they may consider me for senior associate.
Good going. I knew you could do it.
My math program. The Superintendent said he'd fund it.
The receptionist said you called earlier about something.
Believe me, I know your feelings on the matter.
I really think if you're going to spend your life with someone you want to know them pretty damn well.
In there's better. It's kind of romantic, don't you think?
Can I put these here for tonight?
She's only known the guy a few months.
It's not another one. It's my sister. Aren't you happy for her?
So, another one bites the dust.
Or, of course, you could take a sabbatical the rest of the year.
I need someone to work on budget projections.
What does that mean?
It's a very nice letter. But I have to go with what's best for the students.
I've already thought about how to tell the kids where I was.
I'm glad you're doing well.
Believe me, I wish I'd understood what was going on. I've worked really hard to get better.
I know, Letty. But the incident with Zach was frightening for the children. Now if you'd come to me, explained what was going on...
Look, Gail, I've been a good teacher.
So, in light of how the parents feel, and the fact the students are doing so well with the substitute, I don't think I can put you back in the classroom just yet.
Well, I understand. I know my behavior was poor.
I do apologize. A student had a crisis.
The Superintendent was just getting ready to leave.
That's so sweet, Michael. But, really, I've so many things to do.
Mrs. Hallstrom, why don't you join my family for dinner. You'll love my Grandma Rosa.
Simulated sapphires. I bet my daughter would love those, too.
I like those sapphire earrings myself.
Shhh. They're coming to the cubic zirconium.
How's it look?
I'll float you.
All tapped out.
Yes I did. Lose ends are messy.
You didn't have to kill Sophie.
I'm going to retire with a shit-load of money. Find me a small country that doesn't have an extradition treaty with the States and live the good life.
You want the tapes for yourself. You're going to sell them.
Hey, you're not exactly the most trustworthy guy in the world. I took a shot. It didn't work. Did you bring the tapes?
What the fuck was all that about at the hotel last night? I thought we had a deal?
And you're a dirty cop. At least I don't pretend to be something different than what I am.
When this is over you can say whatever the hell you want. I'll be long gone. Besides, who's going to believe you? You're just a two-bit crook.
What about me? Aren't I a loose end?
Yes I did. Lose ends are messy.
You didn't have to kill Sophie.
I'm going to retire with a shit-load of money. Find me a small country that doesn't have an extradition treaty with the States and live the good life.
You want the tapes for yourself. You're going to sell them.
No. I have it. The lamp? The one with your fingerprints and her blood on it? Remember?
They don't have a murder weapon?
Witness' can be convinced they made a mistake. Without the murder weapon the D.A. won't have enough to prosecute you.
A pass? How you gonna give me a pass? A witness can put me at the crime scene.
I can get them -- but what do I get if I do?
Where are the tapes?
Look, I just want out of this nightmare. I don't know these guys. A few days ago I'm in Paris picking pockets and now I'm America's most wanted.
You're fucked, Sami. You know it. That's why you're here.
Bullshit! She was alive when we left her with you.
No. You killed her. Manager remembers you going into her room. Your fingerprints were found all over the place.
You killed her!
Okay. Okay. I believe you.
Wired? I ain't wired.
You think I'm going to talk to you until I know if you're wired.
What are you doing?
If you ever want to get those tapes, meet me in one hour at Grant Park near the statue.
Yeah. I figured I'd be hearing from you.
Do you know who this is?
Yeah. He delivers the goods on Zammito. If we got what we wanted we'd let his brother go providing he tells us where the Van Gogh and the other paintings are.
So Bastaldi makes a deal with the Feds to trade up for his brother?
We're talking Matisse, Renoir, Monet. We know for sure they replaced Van Gogh's "Vase with twelve sunflowers" last week with a copy. It was on loan from the London National Gallery and they're not going to be very happy when they find out about it.
Then we just have to make sure everyone who knows can't say anything.
Too many people know about my involvement in this.
What for? The minute I get him some other Gavone will take his place. I've been doing this for twenty years. When I retire it's not going to be to some trailer park in the suburbs.
I thought you wanted Zammito?
Fuck Bastaldi and his brother. These tapes are gold. Do you have any idea what Zammito would pay to get them back?
They're supposed to be evidence. That's why Bastaldi set this up.
I can't bring the Bureau into this. If I do the tapes become evidence.
Listen, we know their names. They don't know the city. You'll find them. You're the FBI.
This is turning to shit. If word gets out of my involvement in this I'll go to prison.
You'll never get out of the city.
Zero. That's all I know.
I swear man, I don't know. They packed up and left a half hour ago. All I got is one of their phone numbers in Paris.
I'm your worst fuckin' nightmare. Now, if you don't want me to keep on hurting you, it's important that I believe you and right now I don't. So tell me, where did they go?
Jesus. What kind of FBI agent are you?
Hey man, you can't do that!
Where did they go?
They left about a half hour ago.
Not today. Where are your friends?
Uh... excuse me, but don't you need a warrant or something?
Take what you've got and get out of there.
You've already robbed the safe?
Should I call you back?
My number's going to show up on his bill!
You're calling me on is phone?
You're calling me on your cell phone, right?
You're there now?
Yes. We went to the address we were given and had to tie up the owner of the house who turns out to be some Mafia guy.
Well, you better get the money somehow. Six o'clock and come alone. If you don't we'll destroy the tapes.
I don't have it. That's why Vincent went to Chicago. They arrested him before he could bring it back.
Don't bullshit me, Laurant! I know about the Van Gogh.
A million! I don't have that kind of money.
-- I've got the tapes. If you ever want to see your brother out of jail do exactly what I say. Bring one million euros to your boat at six o'clock.
Daniel. Listen I'm afraid there has been a big--
I don't trust anyone. You don't get to the top of this game by trusting people... and after all, you are a thief. It's in your nature to steal. I'm just protecting my investment.
You don't trust me?
This is a considerable move up for you, Daniel. The temptation of having so much money might be too much for you.
I thought I would accompany you to the airport to say bon voyage... and tell you that Marcel will be going with you.
The job is worth about two million euros. Pull this off and you and your crew could make some real money, Daniel. You leave tomorrow.
C'mon, Laurant, America?
Thank you Marcel, for that... extremely redundant explanation.
Good. I have a job for you in America.
Hey Daniel! Hello? Do you guys speak English?
Vincent's in the States on business. That it?
Where's your brother?
Yeah -- you do that.
I will relay the particulars of our conversation to Mr. Maranzano.
You told me that on the phone. What the hell are you doing here? Showing off your communication skills? Go back to your people and tell them when they're serious to put a number on the table.
To tell you that we're interested in the property.
Why are you here?
I'm not here to negotiate.
Okay. How much?
I'm taking a vocabulary course to enhance my communication skills.
Then why not just fuckin' say better than expected? Everybody knows what better than expected means.
Supernumerary. It means better than expected.
-- Super what?
Yeah. That warehouse over on Merchant Street. The volume on our import business has risen dramatically. The proceeds this quarter will be supernumerary due to the --
Okay. I understand you're interested in one of our properties?
I'm good. Really.
You sure? I just got a shipment of espresso from Sicily. Special blend. Can't find anything like it in the States.
No thank you.
Can I offer you something. A drink? Coffee?
When you return please extend my regards to Mr. Maranzano and his family.
Mr. Maranzano sends his warmest regards.
Good. I'm good.
Good. I'm doing good. How you doin', Frankie?
We're doing everything we can to find these people. Right Tony?
Some cash. Jewelry. The other stuff I can replace, but there's a cardboard box... photos of my mother. They're the only ones I have of her.
What is happening with the world? There was a time no civilian would touch a made man. Now every babbo in the world thinks he can get away with something. What did they take?
They knew who you were when they broke in your house?
You have enough to worry about, Angelo. You don't need my problems.
Why didn't you tell me about this?
Angelo, we live and die by the rules we make. We are men of honor, but honor without respect is a... horse-less carriage.
But you were there?
I did. Joey "Two Tons" and Nicky "The Rake" did the deed.
Your own brother? You couldn't send someone else to do it?
He missed three weeks.
Oh Frankie, what's this I hear about your brother?
You know, I'm kind of tired. I'm just gonna go home if it's all the same to you.
You should. You can learn a lot about the criminal justice system on a program like that. Very informative. Stay and watch it with me.
Uh, no --
Nah, that's just Tony's way of telling me Judge Judy starts in ten minutes. You ever watch it?
Someone else coming?
Supernumerary. It means better than expected.
They're gonna be what?
I heard this quarter his profits are gonna be supernumerary.
Business must be good if he can afford to buy up useless property.
He sticks his toes in the water again, we'll cut 'em off.
He's trying to get a foot hold in our territory.
And nothing. He's just feeling us out.
Yeah. Seems Maranzano wants to talk about buying the Merchant Street warehouse.
I understand Bobby Beans came to see you today.
No, I'm good, Angelo.
Frankie, come in. Good to see you. You want something?
You have something for me?
This plane will take you to Canada. From there you can fly back to Paris.
How about if I call you?
I only ask so I can call you when the arrangements are made.
Where are you staying?
I just want to get my people home. I know who you are and what you could do to me if I don't honor my word.
I only have your word for that.
I'll destroy them when we get back to Paris.
And the other half?
Half the tapes.
And for my help I would get what?
You want me to help you get out of the country?
We've got a lot of people looking for us. We'd just like to go home.
I assume you want something?
He's recorded every conversation he's had with you for years.
I don't think it will be a mystery much longer.
I've got to tell you, Mr. Bonanno, This guy's an idiot. How he's lived this long is a mystery.
Not such a good friend. May I reach in my pocket?
You rob an associate of mine... a friend and--
I guess we're going to find out.
Either you are incredibly brave, or incredibly stupid. Which one is it?
Black market art. Zammito got to a few key security guards at the Metropolitan Museum. The Bastaldi's supplied the artists to make copies of famous works. They'd switch the paintings, send the originals to Paris and the Bastaldi's would sell them to private collectors.
What kind of business?
Laurant and Vincent were in business with Zammito.
If you think because you're a women this can't go hard on you, think again.
I don't know.
I know they won't be home tonight.
Why do I have to pick up the tapes.
Raymond, grab the tapes. We're leaving!
I'm just setting my boundaries.
Why is everything an argument with you?
I'm not any closer than you are.
Because you're the closest.
Why do I always have to answer the phone?
Get that, will you?
Too risky. We don't need to get pulled over because of a stolen car.
Why not just steal another one?
She probably hid it at her place. The six of us could find it in --
Forget the money! We've got bigger problems than the money right now.
We're leaving. Raymond get the bag.
No one has mentioned the part of the plan about us getting caught and going to prison.
I agree with Marcel. I say we go to the airport and get on a plane.
Yeah. We just go home.
Not a good idea. Someone gets a license number and it all leads back to you. Raymond, you'll steal one.
You're always pointing out my negative qualities. My analyst says positive reinforcement is a much more productive way of relating with people.
You know what makes a good get away driver? Being able to get away!
And be careful when you get near the top. Zero has a very long one.
Cut his pants up the leg to the groin.
And the Vodka.
Bring me the scissors.
What about the money?
I'm going to kill him myself!
You want Zero to kill him?
Bastaldi's dead. He is fuckin' dead!
We are being watched. Daniel grabs the binoculars and looks.
We are tired and bored with your bullshit. So, put that stupid little knife away before Zero shoves it up your ass.
He said to go fuck yourself.
And if there is, then Zero can kill someone?
I just want you there in case there's trouble.
No one? Then why is Zero here?
Hopefully no one.
Where are you from?
In English. Sami doesn't speak French.
We'll think of something.
That's an excellent plan. Very comforting.
We need to rent a car and for that you need a credit card.
Sami, tomorrow you lift a wallet from someone who looks like one of us.
Why should I have to put it on the list? It's like saying to buy a car with tires.
I bought everything you put on the list. Gloves. Pen knives. Flashlight. Batteries were not on the list.
I can't believe you didn't check.
I thought they came with batteries.
You didn't buy batteries?
Do they come with batteries?
I'm trying. It doesn't work.
Turn on the flashlight.
Maybe if we gave the tapes back --
We still have to get out of here.
I just want to live long enough to get back to Paris. Just long enough to kill Bastaldi.
We all agreed to it. You had no way of knowing Bastaldi was setting us up.
We had a chance to walk out of Zammito's house.
What is that a threat? Are you fuckin' threatening me, Marcel?
I'm not a guy who is known for his patience and right now you're testing mine.
Better than spending my life crawling through windows in the middle of the night.
You call being Bastaldi's lap dog better?
This ain't about that and you know it. This is about you never forgiving me for leaving the crew.
Fuck you! You know I'd never go along with something like this.
I think if he told me he was going to steal Van Gogh's "Sunflowers in a vase" I would remember it.
Did you know about Bastaldi's deal with Zammito?
You know, if you could get your nose out of Bastaldi's ass for two seconds you might see what's going on around you.
The deal is whatever Mr. Bastaldi says it is.
Everyone get some sleep. We're leaving in the morning.
It was an honest mistake. Ridgeway... Ridgeroad... Ridgeway Road.
I think he's already figured that out.
You think it's smart to tell him we're French?
Mr. Bastaldi isn't asking you if you want to go. He's telling you you're going! And if he's telling you you're going to be going then you are going to go!
Besides, we don't know the city and--
I promised Bonanno I'd destroy the tapes.
Did you have to use that much explosive?
I'm leaving you with my friends. I'm trusting you to do the right thing today.
Does it really matter what I say?
You haven't answered my question.
No, that would have left me with nothing because all of you would be dead.
If they had taken us by surprise they would have gotten the tapes back. That would have left us with nothing.
Hey, who warned you that they were coming up to the room?
Can I trust you, Sami?
Some bread and...
What'd you get?
He's been shot a lot. He's used to it.
What's he joking around for? He's been shot.
Get out of the room! You've got company coming up. I'll meet you at the Chevy.
Even if we get out of town and go to another airport I'm sure the FBI and Chicago P.D. has alerted customs.
Okay. Airports, train stations, bus station are out. We know they're connected to the car rental agencies because that's where they picked up Raymond.
It's not your fault, Daniel.
Has to be.
All you are is a professional ass-kisser.
All right, knock it off.
I think he'd cut his dick off if Bastaldi told him to.
It makes sense. I mean, do you really think he would come along if he knew we were being set up?
We have to find Sophie.
You steal some money from a man he gets over it in time. But these tapes. He's never going to stop looking for us.
They'll be waiting for us at the airport.
No. Chicks dig me.
You didn't think it was little suspicious that someone you only knew for a few hours wanted to sleep with you?
What's the big deal? It's not like I was on guard duty or something.
I would have to say... pretty fuckin' bad. You gave us the wrong address Sophie.
How'd it go? I don't know. Daniel, how would you say it went?
That's Frankie Zammito. The Under boss of the Chicago Mafia.
I'll be Elvis and you--
We've got to be careful not to use our real names while we're in here.
Good. Zero and Julien will go in through the window and disable the motion detector. The rest of us will come in through the front door.
After the outside alarm is off we go in through the bedroom window.
Hi. I'm one and this is two, three, four and five.
This is Zero.
There's just one more thing I need you to do.
Okay, we're square now, right?
I'll tell you when it's time.
There's ten grand in here. It's yours. I'm going to call you again. There's one more thing I need you to do.
Fine. Ten o'clock.
We had a deal before you and your friends became the new poster boys for crime.
We had a deal.
Yeah. All set. Tomorrow morning. Ten o'clock. Room 211. Barclay Hotel on River Street. Oh, and due to your recent notoriety and the heat that comes with it, I'm going to have to increase my brokerage fee to twenty five hundred.
-- Did you set it up?
Hey you guys are becoming famous. I was just watching the news and--
A thousand dollars?
And, uh, I'm going to have to charge you a commission... kind of like a brokerage fee.
I ain't no rat. You got money, right?
Why haven't you turned us in?
Yeah, I'd be from Belgium too if I was you. You know Zammito just put his own brother in the hospital? Broke his arm cause he was late on a debt. I mention this to illustrate the kind of people who are lookin' for you.
I'm from Belgium.
I can see that. The man's car you stole. Raphael Ruiz. He's head of the 19th Street gang and one crazy motherfucker. And Frankie Zammito's got the word out he's looking for some French dudes. You're French ain't ya?
I've got a way with people.
I ain't bullshittin'. I can get guns. I can get any kind of gun you want. But they ain't gonna help your sorry ass. You ain't been in town one day and already you got two of the toughest people in Chicago looking for you. How is that possible?
Don't bullshit me.
Man, I can get anything.
Guns. Can you get them?
What do you want now?
I'll be right back. He gets out of the car and walks over to him.
Hard to say.
Tell me the truth Hector... do you think we'll find my car?
I don't give a shit about your cousin's car. We're here about my car. So, shut your mouth! You think you can do that? You think you can keep your big mouth shut?
He told Enrique he didn't know anything about his car.
Hector, don't interrupt me.
-- you stole my cousin Enrique's car.
-- Don't think. Okay? You're not good at it.
I just thought that--
Hey, idiot -- I've got stolen wheels and a stolen radio in the car.
Maybe you should call the police.
Great fuckin' song.
Good song though.
Can you believe that guy? What a moron.
Oh, I'm sorry.
But we ain't had nothing to eat all day boss.
Just find them!
You didn't say find them. You said, "get them."
If I knew where they were you wouldn't have to find them, would you?
Okay boss. Where are they?
You know why I'm handling it very well? Because you're going to get these guys for me.
Well, I must say you're handling it very well.
Well, you know, when five guys break into my house in the middle of the night, stick guns in my face, tie me up and steal from me... it does irritate me.
Boy, you must be pissed.
What'd they take?
Yeah, French guys from France.
French guys? You mean like from France?
They were all French guys.
Send some flowers. Something nice. Roses or carnations. And one of those get well soon cards.
Hey boss, it's not a science.
That's right. I said don't do it. Did you listen to me? No. You wanted the money. So, I lent you twenty large. Now it's been three weeks and you ain't paid a dime. What do you think that makes me look like on the street? I don't do something to you and everyone will think they can skate.
You said don't do it, boss.
What'd I tell you? Huh, Vinny? What'd I tell you when you came to me for money? Didn't I ask you not to do it? Did I not say that? What'd I say to him?
I don't know. I didn't look.
What room number?
The Holiday Hotel.
A Wallet. A hotel room card. Some cash.
Yeah. I'll come down and make a full confession later. Right now, tell me what else you found?
No. It's just that the French guy had a gunshot wound on his neck. So, this is a homicide. Are you guys involved in this?
Are you forgetting who supplements your income?
Some French guy. At least that's what his passport said. You know Joey, I shouldn't be talking to you about this.
And the other car?
Dead bodies. The ones in the Lincoln are your... associates.
What'd you guys find?
Go where? The police are outside.
I was told to take what we have and go.
What do we do?
There must be half a million dollars here though.
I'm telling you I've pulled out everything in the safe. There aren't any jewels.
There has to be.
Yeah and if you turned it around it would say to go right.
The map said to go left.
No. 145 Ridgeroad Way.
And he gave it to us. 145 Ridgeway Road.
Bastaldi got the address from you, yes?
No, I didn't.
You can use my car.
What about transportation?
I can handle the exterior alarm, but the one in the bedroom is a problem.
There's an exterior alarm system. There's also another one in the hall that leads to the bedroom with a motion detector. The control panel is in the bedroom.
Oh, then we will have the house wine.
They don't have a wine list.
It doesn't matter where we go. Between Zammito and the FBI they'll find us. We have to end this here.
Maybe I'm missing the obvious, but why aren't we leaving town? Any place has to be safer for us than Chicago.
That's brilliant! Care to elaborate?
We've got to get out of here.
Don't tell me to be cool! We were supposed to be in and out. In and out! In the last twenty four hours we've managed to get the Mafia... the FBI... the Chicago Police Department and a group of Latin gang members after us. I haven't left out anyone, have I? I don't think so, because we've already pissed off everyone in the fuckin' city!
Hey, it's not your picture on the TV, it's mine. So, try to be cool.
This is bad. This is really fuckin' bad. Am I the only one who sees how bad this is?
Yeah, but you did do it. So let's deal with that.
I knew this was a mistake! I knew it last night when you asked me to go along with this. I could hear that little voice in my head saying, "don't do it! Don't you do it!" Jesus, why don't I ever listen to myself?
This wasn't the deal! The deal was to steal a necklace, not get in the middle of a Mafia war.
No wonder Zammito didn't want us to walk out with this stuff. He's planning on killing Bonanno and taking over the family.
C'mon, get real, will you. You think he's just going to forget about this? These guys are all about respect. All about honor. He's coming after us, so we might as well take the money.
I don't know. Maybe if we did just leave --
Okay. I will have a beer.
What kind of restaurant doesn't serve wine?
They don't serve wine here.
Hey, I was told to come here by Marcel. You guys don't want me, I'll be more than happy to leave.
I see. A master criminal.
You know, a little of this, a little of that. I've boosted cars, stole radios, run a few scams. Right now I'm into pick-pocketing.
What is it you do, Sami?
I'm Sami. Marcel sent me.
We both know I'm already dead.
I'm not going to leave you.
When we get to the next corner jump out.
Stop talking. I'm trying to concentrate.
I knew I should have driven.
This is the only American car you've ever driven.
This is a car. I think this is the best American car I've ever driven.
I've never driven a Cadillac before.
I'm the driver.
Relax. It will be fine.
I am not comfortable with this. I'm not a good liar.
She took everything! Didn't even leave us cab fare.
Oh, man... this is bullshit! You can't trust anyone these days.
What are we going to do, take a taxi?
How about Canada?
I don't know. It's gotta be millions.
No. How much?
How about getting on your knees and communicating with my dick?
I'm talking about human beings communicating openly and honestly.
What the hell is he talking about?
There's no reason to be abusive. You're projecting your anger on me as a defense mechanism.
Pink panther, black panther. Who gives a shit? And I don't remember asking you a God Damn thing, you little turd.
A Black Panther was a member of an African American militant group in the sixties, Marcel. I think you're referring to The Pink Panther.
Give it to me, Sami.
Fine. All of you want to be angry? Be angry... but I'm the one who took the ball and that makes it mine.
No! You can't have the baseball! You're not entitled to the fuckin' baseball!
The baseball is mine.
This is great. After everything we've been through we've got eight hundred euros and an autographed baseball.
Hey, you know you can't this in France.
God, I want to go home.
Yeah and he can't stand it that I tried to do something to better myself.
You guys used to work together?
Whatever! He never told me about the Van Gogh or any of the other paintings.
"Vase with twelve Sunflowers."
Why would they want us to rob the Mafia?
No, that's not Mr. Taylor.
We have a problem. Problem isn't the right word. Dilemma. No that really doesn't describe -- Do you know who that is?
Okay. You can be Elvis.
C'mon, I look more like Elvis than you do.
It's my idea.
-- I want to be Elvis.
I've still got a few legal problems back in the States.
You lived there. You know the city.
Normally I'd be breaking your fingers right now, but I'm going to give you a chance to make enough to pay me back and have some extra for yourself. We have a group going to Chicago to do a job. You're going with them.
Yeah, I can see that.
Today's your lucky day, Sami.
Oh, Marcel! I thought you were somebody else. If I knew it was you I would have never run.
I see. Well, get back out on the street and find them before I "sort of" kill you.
They sort of got away.
Just tell me who's closer to the wall?
Get in the car.
Who is closer to the wall, Joey or me?
I said a clean break.
He's over at St. James. They had to put two pins in his arm.
How's my brother?
Fuck me? Fuck you!
Fuck you, grease-ball!
And I'm tellin' you it ain't! Now, turn your taco-eating ass around and get the hell out of here.
I'm telling you that's my car! And someone's gonna pay for it!
The hell it is.
No. It's mine.
Yeah. It's mine.
Anybody know about that car outside?
The papers for the car will arrive tomorrow.
It's yours. A gift. A gift you could give to your brother... or anyone you owe money to as partial payment.
You see that car?
I understand. The person who sent me wishes to help you.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I represent a person who wishes to remain anonymous, but is aware of your current financial problems with your brother.
I would like to thank you for your hospitality. If you are ever in Paris here is my number.
I know where she went.
How are we going to do that?
Although a cartoon I feel he shares a universal theme: We are all searching for love. No?
Yeah, I dig him.
Oh, Pepe Le Pew. He is very funny and quite well known in France.
No thank you.
No problem, man. Hey, you wanna hit?
I am Raymond. Thank you for allowing us to stay here.
Glenmorangie is very good.
I'm more of a whiskey drinker myself.
The new Beaujolais' come out in France next week. You like wine?
He's right. Do you have any idea what Van Gogh's "Vase with twelve Sunflowers" is worth?
I say we make him pay first. After that you can do whatever you want to him.
Julien, what you're doing right now is a very normal psychological reaction to stress. You're projecting your anger onto us.
You're not helping.
It's simple. Bastaldi's moving up. He's closing down his operation and this is his way of saying thanks to all of us.
I said knock it off! Now as far as I'm concerned you two girls can bitch slap yourselves silly when this is over, but right now we've got to figure out what's going on.
Where is it, Sophie?
The money isn't here.
How do we know what room she's in?
Oh, you think?
I think we went the wrong way.
I'm glad you didn't get something flashy.
Feel free to correct him if you want.
He speaks about himself in the third person?
He's right. The tapes give us leverage with Bastaldi.
They killed our friend. It's personal now. Besides, if we do that, then Julien died for nothing. The tapes are the key.
I don't know.
And how do we do that?
We don't know that for sure.
It has to be at Sophie's. She didn't have time to go anywhere else before she came here.
You wanna tell him?
What does arresting us get them?
They send us to Zammito's house. The FBI is right across the street watching the whole thing, but they don't move. A crime is going down and they don't move. Why? Because they were waiting for us to come out so they could arrest us.
How are we supposed to sleep with this noise?
I can't even hear myself think.
Zero did not put it in his bag. He put it in yours.
You put a loaded gun in your bag and brought it through customs? How stupid is that?
-- Zero isn't interested in your life story. Who gets killed?
Well, you know, not all Algerians speak French. It's a matter of what school you went too. Me I never really --
And you don't speak French?
Vincent Bastaldi is in jail.
Stick around and find out.
Who are you waiting for?
After last night I could say the same for you.
I really thought we had something special going. I can't tell you what a disappointment you've turned out to be.
It's three in the morning. Not much else to do.
I thought I'd listen to some of the tapes. See what's so important that a mob guy has to lock it away in his safe.
What are you doing?
It's not your fault.
I'm sorry things went so wrong today.
The lucky ones.
Who's gonna see it there?
I've been thinking about getting tattoo. You know, a flower or something. On my ass.
It's okay. It was a long time ago.
Sorry. I didn't mean to pry.
No. I got it in prison. I went in for three years. When I came out she was married to my best friend. Happy?
You got it in a bar?
I don't remember. I was drunk.
That's how you get to know someone. Did it hurt when you got it?
You ask a lot of questions.
It looks old. Did you get it a long time ago?
Something like that.
Did she break your heart?
Something like that.
Casandra. Old girlfriend?
They're not nice people.
So you arranged to have the people you worked for robbed?
The art world doesn't fully appreciate my talent yet. I needed some way to pay the rent. Laurant and Vincent pay well for information.
Just lucky I guess. How'd you start working for the Bastaldi's?
So, how did you get hooked up with these guys?
It belongs to Vincent Bastaldi. He left it last time he was here. I'm sure he wouldn't mind if you used it.
No, I like the bag. It would be good for the job tonight.
You like shoes?
Take a nap.
You ever hear of jet lag?
When do we go?
I wasn't expecting this many of you. I've got a few sleeping bags you can use.
I'll get you the papers tomorrow.
I don't know. Sell it. It's gotta be worth something. Someone gave it to me. C'mon Frankie, I'm trying to make good here.
For me? What am I going to do with a piece of shit like this?
It's for you.
Oh really? Thanks. I thought it was a sewing machine. What the hell is it doing here?
What are you nuts? A debt is a debt. I was thinking I'd throw a little extra work your way. You know, you come down to the club, make espresso for the boys... wash their cars... run some errands... things like that.
You gonna forget about the money I owe you?
Yeah. I mean, you are my brother and... well I should have found another way of expressing my disappointment. So, I've decided to make it up to you.
I don't want anything. I just wanted to say... that I may have... overreacted a little the other day.
Yeah. I'm going home today. What do you want, Frankie?
Yeah. I mean besides that. They treating you all right? Food okay?
You broke my arm. How the hell do you think I'm doin'?
So, I just come by to see how you're doin'?
That's good. That's what a stand-up guy does.
She doesn't know. She thinks I fell down the stairs.
She seems pleasant enough.
That's why we're only breaking one arm.
Jesus, Frankie, I'm your brother!
-- Shut up! Don't you try to make me feel bad about this. You knew what would happen to you if you didn't pay. This is on your head, not mine. Break his arm.
Frankie, I --
Well, Li Mu Bai can do it.
I didn't have the heart.
She's crazy. You should have killed her.
I'll go and make up his room!
Li Mu Bai is coming to stay the night.
Much better. You've been gone so long.
How's the arm? Still sore?
Pardon me, but I doubt you can handle her. My wife was quite a martial arts expert. Jade Fox killed her. So you see, this is personal. Leave her to me.
Then leave her to me.
This Jade Fox is a woman?
I'm looking for someone. Jade Fox. I'm a police inspector from Shaan Xi, Gen Su district. Jade Fox is a master criminal. I hear she infiltrated the Yus. She must have come with them when they transferred here. But with Yu's reputation, I can't just go in and accuse her.
Why were you spying on the Yus?
I don't care about your sword.
Wait! I'm a friend!
Who are you?
That's a risk I'm willing to take. Deep down, you're good. Even Jade Fox couldn't corrupt you.
And if I use them to kill you?
I've always wanted a disciple worthy of Wudan's secrets.
Why do you want to teach me?
Why should I? You need practice. I can teach you to fight with the Green Destiny, but first you must learn to hold it in stillness.
Real sharpness comes without effort.
Then tell me where Jade Fox is.
Stop talking like a monk! Just fight!
Like most things, I am nothing. It's the same for this sword. All of it is simply a state of mind.
Do you think you are a real master?
What's it to you?
Where's your master?
I do as I please.
Isn't it a bit too late to be out? You've brought me the sword?
Tell me, who is your master?
I'm just playing around.
My name is Li Mu Bai. The Green Destiny is mine. Jade Fox can't be your master. Where did you learn that "Xuan Piu" move?
What's it to you?
Who are you? Why is the Green Destiny in your possession?
Believe me, I've a lesson or two left to teach you!
Master... I started learning from you in secret when I was 10. You enchanted me with the world of Giang Hu. But once I realized I could surpass you, I became so frightened! Everything fell apart. I had no one to guide me, no one to learn from.
If I hadn't seen you fight with Li Mu Bai, I'd still be ignorant of all you've hidden from me.
You wouldn't have understood, even if I had tried to explain. You know... you've gone as far as you can go. I hid my skills so as not to hurt you.
I studied the diagrams. But you hid the details!
You think you've been teaching me all these years from the manual? You couldn't even decipher the symbols!
Yes, you do! You are still my disciple.
I owe you nothing.
It's the Giang Hu fighter lifestyle... kill or be killed. Exciting, isn't it?
Wherever we want. We'll get rid of anyone in our way. Even your father.
That was just for fun. How can I leave? Where would I go?
You're already a thief.
I'll never live as a thief!
They wouldn't have found me if you hadn't stolen the sword. Like a little girl, you thought stealing would be fun? You, too, are responsible for that death. Come with me. You don't want to waste your life as the wife of some bureaucrat. Denied your talent... As a master and disciple we will rule.
Why are you still here? You killed a policeman. You should leave! You'll bring ruin on my whole family.
You're home late... or should I say early?
He is my defeated foe!
Are you related to Li Mu Bai?
So what if I don't?
You don't seem to understand.
In that case, perhaps we could be of assistance.
Hello. What is your name?
I have a guest.
This spells trouble.
Autumn is coming. I'll shut the windows for you.
It will be just the same. Enough! I'm tired.
Go to bed then. Miss has grown up, and is getting married soon. God knows what the future will bring.
I'm tired now.
Don't invite danger into your father's house.
I'll socialize with whomever I please.
She's one of those. Your mother would not want you consorting with her kind.
Do you know her?
I heard you met Shu Lien today.
Put them down.
I've made you silk pajamas. Do you want to change into them?
Spare your energy. I'll be back!
Take my horse and go to the compound. Give this to Mrs. Wu. She'll help you. Hurry!
She used Purple Yin... Purple Yin poison. It goes straight to the heart.
You can't die! Tell us what poison you used! You can't die! Tell us the antidote! You can't let Li Mu Bai die!
Don't be a sore loser. Go ahead. Take your pick. I'll wait. Go ahead.
Without the Green Destiny, you are nothing.
Come and get it if you can.
Don't touch it! That's Li Mu Bai's sword.
What do I care? You were never a real friend anyway. But I wonder, how long could you last as my enemy?
How dare you accuse us? I always knew you had stolen the sword! I've done nothing but protect you and your family. And you're repaid me with nothing but contempt. Li Mu Bai himself spared you, and all you do is insult him. We wanted some peace and you've ruined it all! You're no sister of mine!
You're working together to set me up! I'm leaving!
Li Mu Bai has made arrangements. He sent him to Wudan Mountain.
Where is he now?
He really loves you. Come back to Peking with me. We'll find a solution.
You know about Lo?
Go back to them first. Then you can decide about Lo.
They forced me to marry!
Look at the trouble you've caused. Now you know what Giang Hu life is really like. If you think of me as your sister, let me give you some sisterly advice. You can run from marriage, but not your parents.
I was just passing by and wondered how you were.
I'll give them to you.
I'm just borrowing some clean clothes. I'm not staying.
Here you must be in proper attire.
Yes, from the West. He went undercover and and followed her here,
You say she killed a policeman?
Then as a sister, let me wish you happiness in your marriage.
Don't distance us. From now on, let's be like sisters.
I am not an aristocrat, as you are... but I must still respect a woman's duties.
Too bad for Meng, but it's not your fault, or Li Mu Bai's.
His name was Meng Si Zhao. He was a brother to Li Mu Bai by oath. One day, while in battle, he was killed by the sword of Li Mu Bai's enemy. After, Li Mu Bai and I went through a lot together. Our feelings for each other grew stronger. But how could we dishonor Meng's memory? So the freedom you talk about, I too desire it. But I have never tasted it.
Yes. Did you know I was once engaged to be married?
About you and Li Mu Bai?
Do you think so? Let me tell you a story.
Am I? I wish I were like the heroes in the books I read. Like you and Li Mu Bai. I guess I'm happy to be marrying. But to be free to live my own life, to choose whom I love... That is true happiness.
You are fornuate to marry into such a noble family.
I'm hardly doing a thing. The less I think of it the better. My parents are arranging everything. The Gous are a very powerful family. My marrying one will be good for my father's career.
Thank you for seeing me. I hear your wedding day is near. You must be overwhelmed by the preparations.
Maybe it is. I wouldn't know.
You write gracefully. Calligraphy is so similar to fencing.
I'll write your name. Just for fun.
You're doing calligraphy?
I've missed you.
You're probably right.
No! You couldn't roam around freely if you were.
What do you think?
You're not married, are you?
So I heard. Congratulations. It's the most important step in a woman's life, isn't it?
You know what I mean. I'm getting married soon, but I haven't lived the life I want.
Sure. No place to bathe for days, sleeping in flea-infested beds... They tell you all about that in those books?
But you're just like the characters in the stories.
Writers wouldn't sell many books if they told how it really is.
I've read all about people like you. Roaming wild, beating up anyone who gets in your way!
Fighters have rules too: friendship, trust, integrity... Without rules, we wouldn't survive for long.
It must be exciting to be a fighter, to be totally free!
Yes, I am. But I prefer the machete. Certain moves, however, call for a sword.
You're a sword fighter too?
You're too young to understand.
Li Mu Bai! The famous warrior? Why would he give his sword to Sir Te?
My friend Li Mu Bai. He's given it to Sir Te as a gift.
Exquisite! You said it belongs to...
Beautiful but dangerous. Once you see it tainted with blood, its beauty is hard to admire. It's 400 years old.
But I have had much practice. As a child in the West, a platoon lived with us. They'd let me play with their weapons. The scabbard is so beautiful.
The handle is heavy. And the blade is no ordinary metal. Still, the sword is the lightest of weapons. You're just not used to handling it.
It's heavy for such a thin piece of metal!
All right. Hurry. I will hold on as long as I can.
The antidote exists. She taught it to me. The formula is simple, but it takes time to prepare. Trust me. As you have helped me, let me help you.
Then you have no use for the sword.
Give it back!
All right. If you can take back the sword in three moves, I'll go with you.
What I've always wanted, to teach you.
What do you want?
Only the sword will settle this.
Let's end this here.
Not another lecture! On guard!
Stop it! You don't deserve the Green Destiny.
Make a wish, Lo.
"A faithful heart makes wishes come true."
Do you remember the legend of the young man?
Don't ever come back.
If you don't, I'll come after you. And I won't let you off so easy.
Keep it safe. Return it to me when we are together again.
You must decide. You might get tired of this life. You might begin to miss your family. If it were our daughter, we'd look for her too. She would miss us. Jen... I want you to be mine forever. I will make my mark on the world. I will earn your parents' respect. We have a legend. Anyone who dares to jump from the mountain, God will grant his wish. Long ago, a young man's parents were ill, so he jumped. He didn't die. He wasn't even hurt. He floated away, far away, never to return. He knew his wish had come true. If you believe, it will happen. The elders say, "A faithful heart makes wishes come true."
Don't send me back!
It is trouble for me.
Let them look.
Your father's men are still looking for you. They're still out there, circling closer.
I am a man. And now I've found the brightest star of all.
So you're still that little boy looking for shooting stars.
Out here, you always fight for survival. You have to be part of a gang to stand a chance. Slowly, your gang becomes your family. All that Dark Cloud stuff is just to scare people and make my life easier.
And so, the little boy became a fearsome bandit. He couldn't find the stars, so he stole my comb.
When I was a boy, one night, I saw a thousand shooting stars. I thought, where did they all go? I'm an orphan. I used to look for stars alone. I thought if I rode to the other end of the desert, I'd find them. I've been riding in the desert ever since.
Give it back.
I don't take orders from anyone.
Give me back my comb.
I'm sorry... I guessed wrong. I though you were a Han.
By the way, I'm a real Manchurian.
Not true. I can use it to pick fleas from my horse.
It's mine. It means a lot to me. A barbarian like you wouldn't understand.
No more hitting on the head! All this trouble for a comb?
Still in a bad mood? At least you're speaking. What's your name?
You've got quite a temper. It's better this way.
Well, there used to be! What's your name? I'm Lo. The Hans call me Dark Cloud. I'm not that tall or big, but I'm quick as lightning.
You're tired. You need rest. Your horse needs water. There's a creek up here.
Give it back!
Let's stop a moment.
With all the traffic on your rooftop these days... it took me a while to get in here. I can't wait any longer. I was wrong to let you go. Come back with me. You'll be happy in the desert. You'll be free there.
You shouldn't have come.
I've already wasted my whole life. I want to tell you with my last breath... I have always loved you. I would rather be a ghost, drifting by your side... as a condemned soul... than enter heaven without you. Because of your love... I will never be a lonely spirit.
Use it to meditate. Free yourself from this world as you have been taught. Let your soul rise to eternity with your last breath. Do not waste it... for me.
My life is departing. I've only one breath left.
Save your strength.
Mu Bai, hold on. Give me some hope...
That can't be! Everything has an antithesis! Why not this?
My blood will soon reverse its flow. It's the same poison she used to kill my master. There is no antidote.
We followed Jade Fox.
Jade Fox drugged her. How did you get here?
Not a bad idea. Tonight we'll get a good night's sleep at headquarters.
I'll look around and catch up later.
What about you?
We're close to your headquarters. Go home and check in.
You're right, but I don't know what to do. I want to be with you... just like this. It gives me a sense of peace.
To repress one's feelings only makes them stronger.
Giang Hu is a world of tigers and dragons, full of corruption... I tried sincerely to give it up but I have brought us only trouble.
Your hand, rough and callused from machete practice... All this time, I've never had the courage to touch it.
Not everything is an illusion. My hand... wasn't that real?
Shu Lien... The things we touch have no permanence. My master would say... there is nothing we can hold on to in this world. Only by letting go can we truly possess what is real.
All right. I'll write you an introduction. Take it to Wudan. Wait there for news from me.
Don't you want to see her again.
She's out there, but I doubt she'll show herself. We'll keep our eyes open. Sooner or later, she'll come for the girl.
You think Jade Fox will show up?
Just be patient with me, Shu Lien.
I wish there were something more I could do to help you.
I thought by giving away the sword, I could escape the Giang Hu world. But the cycle of bloodshed continues.
It's not our affair. Even if Wudan accepts her, her husband might object.
For her, they might make an exception. If not, I'm afraid she'll become a poisoned dragon.
But Wudan does not accept women.
That's not for her. She should come to Wudan and become a disciple.
She's an aristocrat's daughter. She's not one of us. In any case, it will all be over soon. You'll kill Fox, and she'll marry.
She needs direction... and training.
I knew she would intrigue you.
You did your job well. But, this girl... I saw her last night.
My job was to get the sword back, without embarassing anyone. I wasn't about to ruin her life, or her father's.
True. But I must borrow it for one last mission. Jade Fox must die at its edge. Did you know what you were hiding when you covered for that girl?
But it's not your sword anymore. You gave it to Sir Te.
I admit, getting it back makes me realize how much I'd missed it.
Well, we had talked...
Then, why did you come?
I don't know it was stolen until I got here.
What do you mean? Didn't you come back here for it?
That's not what I meant. I don't care about the sword.
No, I'd already sent them home. You can blame me for losing the sword, but please trust that I'll get it back soon using my own methods.
But your men are watching over Yu's compund?
No, not yet...
Have you questioned him yet?
It was Bo, Sir Te's man. I hear he followed the thief to the Yus'.
It says Jade Fox is hiding at Yu's. On the night of the theft there was a brawl near Yu's. Were you involved?
Did you see who posted it?
Be careful. Sir Te requires discretion. Official business is difficult enough. Don't let personal feelings make it worse. And I don't know... even this poster... could be some sort of trap.
So I shall avenge my master's death after all.
Is there any place safer than under the nose of Governor Yu?
I didn't think she'd dare come back to Peking!
You always suspected she'd fled to the West.
Jade Fox? Impossible.
What have you discovered?
But something is going on at the Yu household.
Sir Te believes it's a ploy cast suspicion on Governor Yu.
Join me once you have finished. I can wait for you in Peking.
First I must visit my master's grave. It's been many years since Jade Fox murdered him. I have yet to avenge his death. And yet I'm thinking of quitting. I must pray for his forgiveness.
Come with me to Peking. You can give the sword to Sir Te yourself. It'll be just like old times.
So what will you do now?
It's time for me to leave it behind.
You use it justly, you're worthy of it.
Too many men have died at its edge. It only looks pure because blood washes so easily from its blade.
I don't understand. How can you part with it? It has always been with you.
I am. He has always been our greatest protector.
The Green Destiny Sword? You're giving it to Sir Te?
Perhaps I could ask you to deliver something to Sir Te for me.
We're preparing a convoy for a delivery to Peking.
Something I can't let go of. You are leaving soon?
What was it?
No. I didn't feel the bliss of enlightenment. Instead... I was surrounded by an endless sorrow. I couldn't bear it. I broke off my meditation. I couldn't go on. There was something... pulling me back.
You were enlightened?
During my meditation training... I came to a place of deep silence... I was surrounded by light... Time and space disappeared. I had come to a place my master had never told me about.
Why? You're a Wudan fighter. Training is everything.
I left the training early.
The mountain must be so peaceful... I envy you. My work keeps me so busy, I hardly get any rest.
Monk Zheng said you were at Wudan Mountain. He said you were practicing deep meditation.
Good. And how are you?
It has. How's business?
Mu Bai...It's been too long.
I doubt it. This thief... it very unusual...
Maybe the murderer and the thief are one and the same.
A female criminal! Now that's news!
Yes. The very killer of Li Mu Bai's own master. Last night, she killed a policeman who had tracked her down.
No mercy will be shown toward the murderer who turned up in Peking.
But don't be too lenient.
Sir Te knows that even well-meaning people can make mistakes... that can bring ruin to themselves and their families.
That's good. Sometimes the help can't keep their hands to themselves. It's very embarassing.
We know who stole the missing item. If the thief returns it, I'm sure Sir Te will pursue the matter no further.
I heard Sir Te lost something. And now Madame Te's not feeling well...
I'm sorry she's not feeling well enough to receive you today.
Madam Te is certainly spoiling us with these wedding gifts. She's being so considerate.
Father! Let me avenge my mother's death.
If you surrender now, you'll suffer less. But if you resist, I won't stop until you're dead.
"We'll settle this at midnight on Yellow Hill." Good, the fox is out of her hole.
What does it say?
You're mistaken. We're just street performers. We were rehearsing.
We must avenge mother!
It's Jade Fox!
The best way to trap a fox is through her cubs.
What do you have in mind?
Sir Te, can you find some excuse to invite Madam Yu and her daughter?
This is a delicate matter.
We must be careful. Governor Yu is a court official, and in charge of security. Any disturbance will cast suspicion on him. It might get Sir Te in trouble.
Then someone's trying to set him up. We should inform Li Mu Bai.
But the sword could be in his compound.
Yes, though I doubt he's involved in this.
Has Governor Yu ever seen the sword?
When it comes to emotions, even great heroes can be idiots. Tell me if Li Mu Bai is not more open the next time you see him. I'll give him an earful!
I beg your pardon. Li Mu Bai and I aren't cowards.
Don't be coy. I've always known about your feelings for each other. All these years, it's a shame... neither of you is brave enough to admit the truth to the other. You're both wasting precious time.
I don't know...
Li Mu Bai giving up his sword and his warrior days... maybe he's trying to tell you something?
Please, Sir Te, what is it?
Please do not be such a stranger. You'll stay the night as my guest. Now, Shu Lien... tell me something. And forgive me for prying. Your father was a great friend to me, and I think of you as my own daughter.
You've always been so good to Li Mu Bai and me. Please accept our thanks.
All right. I'll act as the sword's custodian.
Sir Te! It has brought him as much trouble as glory. Help him to leave these troubles behind. Otherwise, he'll never be able to start anew.
This is Li's personal sword, a great hero's weapon! He is the only one in the world worthy of carrying it. It's too fine a gift. I cannot accept it.
I call it blood, Detective. If you want, you can call it graffiti.
What in the hell... do you call that?
Who ever made that.
And you're gonna tell me who.
Was. ALBRECHT This isn't Top Dollar's style anyway. This was somebody else. Somebody new.
He was a runner for Top Dollar. Just muscle.
Don't any of your little pals have real, grown up names?
This sack of shit is called Tin- Tin.
You know, you sure got a hard-on for a guy that's guilty of zip on paper. Top Dollar runs Showtime; what's the matter, don't you like adult entertainment?
Sure it coulda. Funboy's not here, neither is T-Bird -- none of Top Dollar's number ones.
They make you fart.
No onions though, okay?
Care for a hot dog?
Don't thank me.
Well, hello there...chocolate,
You gonna wind up working at a school crosswalk. that doughnut's chocolate you, know.
I knew that.
Don't thank me. Your ass is already in enough trouble for this shit.
Double homicide. A year ago. Las Halloween.
Just don't tell me you "owe me one." What file?
This is special, darlin'. Please?
Speak up. Clear it with the Captain if you need a file.
Annie, I need a file.
Whatever it is, the answer's no, Eddie. I'm too busy tonight.
You're bleeding, man. You can't make it.
The hell you say. This isn't just about you any more.
Leave here. Don't do this. I don't want you here.
This isn't your place. This isn't your fight. And I don't need your help.
You sorta looked like you might need my help.
No. I have one more thing to do.
How 'bout the morgue?
They couldn't do anything for me.
Right. You sure I can't just take you to the emergency ward?
I mean, I've done what I came to do. It shouldn't hurt this much. But it will pass...
It's only fourteen or fifteen flesh wounds.
It's only a flesh wound.
Yeah, among others. Hey, man -- you're hit.
Funboy had to leave this mortal coil.
It's done. ALBRECHT I figured as much. Did you cap off Funboy.
My pleasure. ERIC Don't smoke these.
Thank you. For giving a damn.
I should be trying to stop you.
Halloween is coming, soon. You will have Top Dollar if you watch for me at the Showtime, tomorrow night.
Thirty hours. A day of life, plus change...
I'm sorry as hell, man.
The venom of bad memories. You were there; you saw her. I saw you seeing her.
You okay, man? I mean, what just happened.
You went out the window. She was beaten and raped. She died in the hospital.
I need you to tell me what you remember. What happened to us?
You died, man. I can't believe it but here you are. Last year, you and your girlfriend --
I saw it, too.
You, my friend, are dead. I saw your body. You got buried.
The others are called Skank, T- Bird. Street names. Funboy. Watch me, office Albrecht.
Fucking A, my friend.
I know Top Dollar has turned your streets into his hell.
You don't say.
Listen: Top Dollar. He "owns the street here." He will "erase my ass."
You must listen carefully: the Fire Department will be here soon. There is an injured man in the alley who needs assistance. As Shelly Webster once needed your assistance, and as you are shortly going to need my assistance.
Are you nuts, walking into a gun?
No further. I'm serious.
And I say I'm dead... and I move.
It can't rain all the time.
At least it finally stopped raining.
We'll discuss this later. Obviously. You left the door open.
He was a present. Besides, we're moving anyway. You said.
I was wonderin' where you'd gotten to -- Oh, Elly, honey, a cat. Here?
I lost my key.
I told you you're not supposed to come in here.
Fun, he's not going away; he's scaring the piss outta me!
It's just the dope, don't worry
Fun -- look at that guy...
Oh wow, oh wow, don't fucking do that, man. I nearly had a fucking heart attack.
Out. Now. I gotta work.
Hey, Darla -- before we die of old age, how about it --?
You mean you'll, like' dig your way out of the grave? Euww.
I don't know if I can. But you have this... and you know where to come.
You're not gonna come back, are you?
In a better place. I hope.
Now do you get to see her? Shelly, I mean.
And she'll be alive. Up here.
Shelly would've wanted you to have it. This way, you'll think of her every time you see it...
I think he's yours, now.
I remember him! Here, Gabriel... here kitty... Gabriel... Is he still yours?
She's dead. She's gone. And now you're just gonna go away and never come back, too. I hate this place; it isn't fair.
You brought flowers. As long as you don't forget her, Elly, she lives.
A remembrance. A closure.
What's going on...?
I have to go.
You gotta go now, I bet.
Do you feel okay.
No name. You sure ask a lot of questions.
Does she have a name?
Can you play "Teddy Bears' Picnic?" It used to be her favorite.
I can pick out a tune now and again.
He has a room, upstairs. I don't like him very much.
Mister Funboy lives there?
My mom works over there. I'm waiting for her, but she's probably with him, right now.
I dabble. May I?
You look like a rock star without a job.
Mom tried to cook.
Chili dog for breakfast... it's original.
She's still dead.
Well, how's your friend?
I went to see a friend of mine.
What's goin' on, Elly?
I need to find him kind of soon, Elly.
You buying? He kinda wanders around. You'll see him if you pay attention.
I'm looking for a good guitar man.
You're not a cop, either. What do you want him for?
I'd like to get in touch with him.
I don't know you.
I know your friend, too -- the one that looks like a rock star.
Victims. Aren't we all.
Holy shit... you're dead, man...
I don't know you...
I want you to tell me a story, Tin-Tin.
Hey, I got my rocks off, so fuck you in the ass, man.
You cut her. You raped her. You watched!
Last Halloween, eh? Yeah... Yeah, I remember. I fucked her too, I think.
A year ago. Halloween. A man and a woman. In a loft. You helped to murder them.
Little early from trick-or-treat, homie. This dick trying to bushwack me.
Rowdy. Let me fill in some gaps for you.
I never forget anything, dickhead. That building was a sweep-and- clear; the bitch was a nuisance with her goddamned petition. It got a little rowdy... end of story.
You don't even remember...
Who gives a fuck! I'm a businessman. You gonna do me, then do me and shut you're face!
It's yesterday! Do you know what you destroyed?
That's ancient history.
A year ago. A very nice lady circulated a petition. She died. Last Halloween. Answer yes or no.
Take the dope, too.
Do you know what you destroyed?
Five large, in the drawer right over there. I never saw you.
Top Dollar, you're the only one here still wasting good air...
A whole club of pirates, with pirate names...
Like the car. He hangs out with Skank. that little ass-hair, and they hang at the Pit -- hell, Funboy lives there. Ask Top Dollar.
You want those assholes, you want Top Dollar.
Another jolly nickname?
I ain't got no fuckin' ring.
Cute nickname, don't you think?
I took yours from you. Your little girlfriend? I took hers, too. Your meaningless, petty life? I took it so that tonight your existence might gain a purpose. You're no avenger. You're mine.
And how many lives have you destroyed?
I don't believe that. Lao motions to Grange with the killing blade. Grange RELAXES his deathgrip on the crow. MOVE IN CLOSE on Eric so we may perceive a palpable degree of relief.
You're too late. There was a guy outside - on the stairs - you really need to talk to. But he turned to dust and blew away. I don't have any power for you to take.
Sooner or later, my action were destined to bring me a genuine Fury. And it turned out to be you. At last. I appreciate your abilities as few mortals can. That's why I desire them.
I know. That is why I will prevail. Mr. Grange... ?
I want the girl. Unharmed. Now.
I wish to possess what you have now.
Of course you can. ANGLE - GRANGE IN THE GALLERY -- in darkness. The running lights on his night-scoped, laser-sighted sniper's rifle which THROWS vague sprays of eerie red and green light.
I can see her.
I believe our friend Elly call you Mister Crow. Please acknowledge; the mike will pick you up.
Your pain ends now.
No, wait, no WAIT, that's too much, man, that's like overkill, nobody can take that much, you're wasting it -- !
Does it hurt?! You dead-ass, clown-faced fuck, of course it fucking hurts! What the shit are you gonna do about this?!
Does it hurt?
Owwwaaaa -- fuck me! Look what you did to my sheets, you lame piece'a shit! AAAAaa! Goddd!
Yeah, I got a more fun idea myself.
How the hell did you do that?
Very well, it's your ass.
Don't waste my time.
I'm already alone.
You'll be alone.
Fine with me.
Do this thing and you will be vulnerable. The blood will not return. No powers. No reunion. Nothing.
Tell me I'll get hurt. That I might die. I've already done that. I don't need anyone's help. Yours included.
Your job is done. You interfere with the living again.
Maybe I was wrong about you.
You need to learn to mind your own business or you'll never get where you think you're going.
Getting a little ambitious and extracurricular, aren't we?
You work for the dead. Forget that, and you can forget it all.
Bugger off to the graveyard, skull- face, I'm busy.
Glad to see you're finally with the program.
Leave me alone -- !
Kill the men who killed you both, and the Day of the Dead will be your reunion.
Having fun yet? No? I'll give you a hint. Remember whatshername?
Interested? Follow the crow.
What the hell are you?
Yeah, I know, fatso. Do us all a favor. Make Top Dollar smile.
What's this -- a little, ah, bloodstain, right? Fifty bucks for the box, and I'm doin' you a --
Nineteen bucks at Sears. Fake,
Coupla more rings... 24k.
Whoa, hey, whoa. Business.
Blow yourself, bigmouth.
Move in, guys.
I've got him if you want him.
Is he inside?
We've got company.
Kill a dead guy?
Who is only invulnerable so long as he cares about the dead. When he begins to care about the living, you'll find his heart can bleed... and I want it to bleed for me.
Only thing you'll get from that clown is a faster way to die. LAO To the contrary...
Mmm. But tonight I can take what is his.
Like some sort of zombie on a revenge trip.
Do you know of spirit assassins? You do know the dead can rise? Properly motivated, of course.
Not a Plymouth Fury, I bet.
I intend no slight to you, but I cannot find the English to adequately express just what he is. I suppose Western mythology would describe him as a Fury.
Give me a break. That guy's a wacko...
Extremely so. You and I are the recipients of unwanted good fortune, in the form of a man everyone is calling The Crow.
That thing is poisonous.
This is a cobra, Mr. Grange. Yes, it is real.
What... the hell is that?
No. I saw a guitar. This isn't some rock-n-roller you forgot to pay, is it? There was a drawing on the wall that looked like a bird. In blood.
Did you see an animal of any kind? Did you see a bird?
Your comprehension is not required. Your cooperation and, indeed, your ability are the issues on the table.
Nice speech. What's it supposed to mean?
Do you think this childish machismo impresses me? When I was a boy in Saigon I watched my country change one block at a time, one building at a time. Whole lives erased. A way of life, polluted. Today, no one forces me to move. I use my powers to change your country, one block at a time, one building at a time.
The night is young.
Come now. You've seen the graffiti -- all over the city in the few hors it has taken your men to drop like plague victims. What about your turf, Top? You don't seem to have ripped out anyone's heart yet.
Sounds like our "Crow" is out-maneuvering you.
To be sure. Now tell how your friend died.
Anybody violates my turf -- our turf -- I'll rip out there heart and show it to 'em.
I know of no one. But even if there is, I am sure it is nothing outside your capacity to deal with?
I was wondering if you could tell me anything... about a wildcat operative.
I had heard something like this. Describe it for me. The "hit".
One of mine. And it wasn't a standard hit.
Who got himself what?
Bad news. Alot of action on the streets tonight, and nobody bothered to clear it with me. Tin- Tin got himself whacked.
An unexpected pleasure.
You can't do this to me. It could ruin me.
Actually, I was planning on running down to Kinkos. Do you think you could give me ride?
You didn't show it to anybody?
His journal. He sent it to me the day before he died. Everything about you is in it. The blow jobs, the hand jobs, the menages, your bout with bulimia, the affair you had with your guidance counselor and how he gave you... eww. Let's see, then there's your coke problem... You still keep it in your crucifix, don't you? It's all in there.
I have his journal.
Sebastian was a pathological liar. I wouldn't believe a word he -
Kathryn, I know all about you and Sebastian.
Who the hell do you think you are coming into my house and saying those things to me. My brother is dead, have some respect.
You heard me.
Oh cut the shit, Kathryn.
Look, I know this sounds corny, but whenever I feel like I can't go on I... turn to Jesus and he helps me through the problem. Call me an anachronism, but -
Well, I'll leave you alone now. I just came in here to get something of mine.
I'll be fine.
Are you okay?
I'm sure you're going to love it there.
Now I remember. Annette Harrison. Your father's the new headmaster at Oakwood.
You might say that.
Did you know Sebastian well?
I don't think so.
Have we met?
On my mother's life.
You promise not to say anything?
Now it's my job to look out for you. You're like a kid sister to me. Do I look like some kind of gossip queen?
Annette, how long have we known each other?
I can't tell you. I'm sworn to secrecy.
I don't know. I've been hearing some awful things about him.
Well, a lot of people are jealous cause he's loaded.
What do you mean?
Not a whole lot. We take some classes together. He's got a bad rep, but it's mostly bullshit.
No. I mean. I don't know. What else do you know about him?
Is there a mutual feeling between you two?
That's not his style. one thing I can say about Valmont. He always speaks the truth.
Really? I thought he said it all the time.
He told you he's failing in love with you? I've never known him to say those words before.
What, your virginity? Well that's over now.
But you knew this was important to me.
You don't even know me. The fact of the matter is there is some one I love. She's smarter, prettier... you don't even compare to her. The only reason I am here is because she wants us to be exclusive.
You don't know how to love.
I'm just being honest. I just wanted to see what you were like in bed.
Why are you trying to hurt me?
I know. I wish I felt the same. Unfortunately, I feel nothing. I think it was just the conquest. Sorry, I'm completely fucked up.
I love you.
Why aren't you understanding?
What are you saying?
It's not you, it's me. I'm completely fucked up.
Yeah, me neither.
This isn't working out for me anymore.
Would you like a tour?
It was perfect.
I'm fine. I have to get going to my friends' house. Was it --
Get off me.
Please don't go.
Oh please Annette. You spend all your time preaching about waiting for love. Well here it is. Right in front of you, but you're going to turn your back on it. I'm sorry that we're not at the age where we can get married. If we were, I'd propose, but that's not going to happen. So I guess we're just fucked. I'll move on, but you... you're going to have to live with yourself knowing you've turned your back on love. And that makes you a hypocrite.
How am I a hypocrite?
Well, I'm afraid you don't have a choice in the matter. You make me sick. You're a hypocrite and I don't associate with hypocrites.
Sebastian, please. I don't want us to end on bad terms.
Good for you.
I think that's for the best.
Back to the city. I may take off to Europe for the rest of the summer. I just can't handle it around here.
Where are you going?
I just came to say goodbye.
It's because I don't trust myself with you. I took a vow and because of you I'm tempted to break it. Don't destroy that for me. Please.
You really want to know?
Why can't we be together?
That's not fair.
Then what's wrong? I love you Annette. It's not like you have a husband, unless your married to Jesus.
I have feelings for you.
I can't handle it. I can't keep my feelings bottled up like you. Can you honestly tell me that you feel nothing for me? ... Tell me!
I thought you said we were going to be friends.
Because I'm in love with you.
Why are you doing this?
You know what? I don't take it back.
You are very pretty. I would like to kiss you.
Bonjour Monsieur Philipe.
You don't know Monsieur Philipe?
Who's Monsieur Philipe?
My friend Monsieur Philipe is a friend of Florentino.
Not at all. Have a seat.
Am I bothering you?
Oh dear, are you actually laughing?
I am lighten. Can we drop this?
I do not.
It's not about winning. You know what your problem is? You take yourself way too seriously.
I can't win with you.
No, it doesn't. I'm happy you're being honest with me.
Yes it does.
That's okay. It doesn't make you a bad person.
I did. We played three games of backgammon and...
You're going to tell me that you had a good time with the old lady.
You must take me for a real idiot.
"I actually feel good about myself?"
It's weird. I actually feel good about myself. Can we do this again next week?
Babe, you're looking at the next Mother Teresa.
I don't know? Maybe I'd like it. I'm trying to change here. You could be supportive.
You? Volunteer? I don't think so.
Need any company?
I'm doing some volunteer work.
Alone again. What are you up to today?
Sure. Have a good night.
You're not gonna start that again.
Yeah, it's pretty relevant considering my situation.
Of Human Bondage.
What are you reading?
What are you doing?
Wait, don't hang up.
Well, I was just calling to tell you I was thinking about you and I miss you. I'll let you go.
It wasn't a date. He's just a friend.
How was your date?
I'm... I'm alright.
Well, I was just calling to see how you're doing.
No, not at all.
It's not about being happy. You and I can't -
I'll leave this afternoon. Happy?
If that's a problem, then I'll make arrangements to stay with some friends.
Alright. I want you to leave and go back to New York.
And you promise to abide by it?
You truly want to do something to make me happy?
Tell me what to do, Annette. How can I win your heart. I'll do anything. I can't get you out of my mind.
That's also none of your business.
How about tonight?
That's none of your business.
I can't. I'm seeing a friend.
Ouch. Do you think we could spend some time together this morning?
Yes, but only when it's mutual. And this is far from mutual.
Don't you believe in love at first sight?
You don't even know me.
Well try this one on for size. I think I'm falling in love with you.
I'm sorry, but I'm not here to be your savior.
I'm trying to better myself, but the one person who can help me is the same one pushing me away.
And that's a bad thing?
Yes, well unfortunately I can't just switch the "on" button to "off." The sad fact of the matter is that you've unintentionally rubbed off on me.
I thought we agreed that we were going to be friends.
I wish I could say the same for myself. I was up thinking about you all night.
It was fine.
I said I was sorry.
I'm not going to speak to you till you realize that you can't intimidate me.
Oh right, last night. I guess I owe you an apology.
Give it up.
How are you today?
No thank you.
Need a lift?
What's the big deal? We're friends. Haven't you ever seen your friends naked before?
It's my house.
Fine. Friends it is. I can live with that.
I'm sorry, but you're not my type.
You don't find me cute? Come on, look at these muscles.
I don't... I don't want to answer that... look we're friends.
Do you deny that there's an attraction between us?
Because you act like a pig.
Look, I'm flattered but, seriously it could never work.
I wasn't kidding. I'd like to take you out.
Seriously, you're amazing. You have everything going for you. You're smart, you're beautiful, you're determined. You're everything I want in a girlfriend.
No, it's okay. I mean I look at you with all your morals and values and well, YOU seem to be happy in your choices. I envy you. No bullshit.
Look, I didn't mean to give you a hard time.
You implied it.
I never said that.
About what you said today in the stable. I'm not a happy person.
How's the water?
Is that the last thing you need? My your clever.
The last thing I need is you going into my room searching for this while I'm away.
Give me the fucking letter.
I sincerely doubt it.
You know you could at least have the decency of telling me who's badmouthing me so I might have the opportunity to confront them face to face. How do you know it's not some girl who's pissed off at me for breaking up with her?
This is my favorite part. Even more treacherous and dangerous than he is charming and fascinating. He has never taken a single step or spoken a single word without some dishonorable or criminal intention. Every young girl he has successfully pursued has regretted it.
What? Another letter from your friend?
You know it amazes me that someone as bright as you can be so horrible.
Give me a minute. I'll be right down.
Gee, with an invitation like that how could a girl refuse.
Oh come on. Quit acting like a geriatric and get in the pool.
At this hour? I don't think so.
Why don't you come join me for a swim and we'll discuss it.
You need help.
That's a matter of opinion.
Romantic? He rapes her.
Several times. I'm not as dumb as I act, you know. When Howard Roark makes love to Dominique Francon... most romantic scene in all of literature.
You've read The Fountainhead?
Look, I know this is your house and all, but do you think you couid keep it down? I'm trying to read.
You talking to me?
Excuse me. Excuse me!
Alright, I said I was sorry. Can we start over again? I think we've gotten off on the wrong foot.
Look, I've got a lot of problems and I'm trying to deal with them and the last thing I need is people spreading shit about me.
Why are you being so dramatic?
Fine, forget it. It's obvious that we're not going to be friends.
It's not really important.
Who the hell is taking the time to write letters, spreading this shit about me?
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to upset you... but you still didn't answer the question.
Well maybe you should get to know the person before you judge them instead of listening to some bullshit gossip.
A friend wrote me.
How do you know I've been with several women?
Take yourself. You've slept with several women. Are you happier because of it?
I wasn't knocking anything. It's just my belief that people shouldn't actually experience the act of love until they are in love and that people our age are too immature to be in touch with those emotions.
Most people are morons. I mean who are you to knock what you've never experienced?
That's a first. Most people praised me for it.
I must say I found it rather appalling.
I read your teen beat manifesto.
I was just being honest. You happen to have a nice ass. Sorry.
Are you often this offensive on a first encounter?
You a lesbo?
I don't know. Relationships seem too distracting. I'd rather concentrate on my studies.
Got a boyfriend back home?
So what year are you going into?
Doesn't ring a bell.
I'm familiar with a lot of breeders in the mid-west. What's his name?
My Grandpa, used to breed horses on his farm so I would come over and ride all the time.
I'm sorry about that.
My mother and I used to ride a lot, before she got sick.
Thank you, Annette. Chance Hill has been with my family for over sixty years. Does your family do much riding?
It's a beautiful home you have here Mrs. Rosemond.
Alright, I believe you. Stop crying. Your secret's safe with me.
I think he's telling the truth Valmont. Greg couldn't write a grocery list let alone a letter.
No problem. Just make sure your front door is unlocked. Shall we say the "stroke of midnight" no pun intended?
Don't think it's not going to cost you.
Hmmm. I do believe Bravo is showing Spartacus on television tonight.
Really. You think you could arrange a little get together with him tonight on my behalf?
Not anymore. Football team started practice last week. He's already called me to hook up.
Too bad he's in Kansas this summer.
I shit you not. McConnell used to sneak in my dorm room drunk every month. We'd go at it for a while, then as soon as he'd cum, he starts freaking out. You know - "What are you doing, man? I'm not a fag. I'll kick your ass if you say anything." It's like, for Christsakes Greg, you're gay, deal with it. The only reason why I let him continue with his charade is because he's got a mouth like a Hoover.
Are you shitting me?
Let's just say Greg likes tackling tight ends on and off the field.
What do you mean?
I don't think that bothered him.
It would make sense. McConnell hates me. I fingered his girlfriend at the game last year.
He's from Kansas City. I wouldn't be surprised if he was your rat.
The football stud?
Kansas. Who the hell do I know in Kansas?
Where did you say she's from?
Blaine, if I knew who it was that person wouldn't be alive right now.
Any ideas who it could be?
- wrote a letter to this chick and saying shit about me.
- none taken -
Unbelievable. Some fag, no offense -
I'll see you tomorrow.
Well, I guess it's getting late. Please thank Kathryn for the use of her Steinway.
Doctor King is my favorite.
It's based on the life of Doctor Martin Luther King.
Ronald is one of the few high school students attending Juliard. He's composing his first opera.
Relax. It's okay. Take a deep breath.
Oh, I suck. I suck.
Well hurry up. I want to be at Mrs. Rosemond's before lunch.
I'm in the bath, mom.
Don't you raise your voice at me. Go to your room, now.
Those are my letters!
Margarita found them while cleaning your room.
Where did you find those?
Cecile, is that the best you can do? You must forgive her, Kathryn. She's never been in a co-educational atmosphere before.
What are the boys like?
That's one way of looking at it.
It's like a secret society.
Cecile, everybody does it. It's just that nobody talks about it.
But that would make me a slut. Wouldn't it?
So? Don't you want to make Ronald a happy pappy? Practice makes perfect, Cecile. My advice is to sleep with as many people as possible.
I don't love him. I love Ronald.
Now listen. Now that you're on your way, it would be stupid of you to stop. Think of Sebastian as a tutor. Let him instruct you.
I'm so proud of you. You're becoming a woman.
Cecile, you had an orgasm.
Well... I don't know - it was weird. At first it felt icky, then it felt kind of okay. Then, I started getting really hot and then I started shaking and then like, I don't t know... it felt like an explosion, but a good one.
Well did you like it?
What do I do then?
Cecile, I think you're going to have a hard time crying rape if that's all he did.
If that's what you call it.
Well what then?
He made you give him a blow job.
Well... not exactly.
So, let me get this straight. You came over to our house late last night and he forced intercourse on you.
I don't know.
Why didn't you do something?
If she knew, she'd kill me. It happened at your house last night.
Does your mother know?
It involves your brother. He... took advantage of me.
Cecile, you have to tell me.
I... I don't think you want to know.
What do you mean?!
Something awful happened last night.
Calm down. Tell me what's wrong.
Who is it?
Of course I would. We're friends, right?
You'd do that for me?
Cecile if there's one thing I'm great at it's love letters. With my help, he'll be eating out of the palm of your hand. Perhaps we can arrange a little get together for the two of you at my house.
I want you to make me copies of his letters and bring them to me.
Yes. They're in this antique doll house in my room.
Did you hide the letters?
Listen to me. Your mother must never know. Never.
I do like him. I can't stop thinking about him.
Cecile, we just made out in the middle of Central Park. You can trust me.
I don't know.
Well do you like him?
That's so romantic. Have you responded?
Is it that obvious?
Oh come on Cecile. He's crazy about you.
What are you saying?
Maybe you should try it on your friend Ronald sometime.
That was cool.
Let's try it again, only this time I'm going to stick my tongue in your mouth. When I do that I want you to massage my tongue with yours. That's what first base is.
It was nothing.
See that wasn't so bad.
I guess. It still sounds gross.
Do you want to learn or not?
Are you for real?
It's not gross. How else do you think girls learn? Here turn around and face me.
Eww. No. That's gross.
Haven't you ever practiced with one of your girlfriends?
Ah duh. Boys. I've never even gone to first base with a guy. What do I do?
What are you scared of?
You think so? I don't know. I guess I'm just scared.
What a loser she must be. Anyhow, Court's invited me to the Hamptons for Labor Day Weekend.
Really? Bulimic headcase.
He's alright. He kept talking about this bulimic headcase he dumped over Fourth Of July.
So, rumor has it that you went on a date with Court Reynolds. I hear he's very nice.
Thanks. Nice meeting you.
I'll call you later and we'll get together and plan your curriculum.
I was thanking her. Vietnamese is such a beautiful language.
What was that?
Good night Cecile.
Want a blow job?
Need any company?
I'm taking a shower.
Where are you going?
No, you were fine.
Is it me?
Cecile. This is what I like to call quiet time. This is time when we reflect on what we've done.
I like it better when I'm on top.
For the first time, yes. It'll pass.
Am I suppose to be this sore?
Some other time, Cecile.
Want to join me?
I don't want to kiss you here. I want to kiss you there.
You promised to let me kiss you.
What are you doing?
Just a kiss, right?
Of course. I'm not a monster.
And then I can go home?
Cecile, all I want to do is give you a kiss.
Please please please. I'll do anything. Just don't call my mom.
Why not? ... Oh wow, she doesn't know you're here. In fact, you're grounded. Jesus, you could get in a shitload of trouble for this. I think I should call her anyway.
My mom? Don't call my mom.
Okay, okay. I'll just call your mom and have her come pick you up.
I want to go home.
I was just kidding.
I want to go home.
I'm sorry that was out of line.
Mmmm, you're right. Those clothes don't do you justice. Why don't you take them off.
I look terrible.
Just taking your photo.
What are you doing?
He'll love it.
You think he'll like it?
It is, unless you're a fuck up, like myself.
But I thought high school is only four years.
I'm what you would call a fifth year senior.
What year are you in?
How are things down under? Blossoming I hope.
My father just took me on a trip to Australia.
Would you please leave.
What, nervous I'm going to win?
Good luck, Sebastian.
Really? Care to make a wager on that?
Don't even think about it. Rachel is an exceptionally well rounded young woman, who happens to be attending Princeton this fall. She's way too smart to fall for your line of b.s.
My daughter, Rachel.
Well, you don't have to get nasty about it.
I hope for your sake you grow out of this immature phase. It's going to get you into trouble.
No it doesn't. I see right through you.
It works a little.
You think you can come in here with that cute little smirk on your face and try and flirt with me. It doesn't work, Sebastian.
Don't be insecure, Doc. You're a big help.
This isn't a joke. Your parents spend a lot of money to send you here. I'm trying to help you.
Why? I like spending time with you. You know, you're quite attractive for a woman your age. You have killer legs. Killer.
No. This is going to be our last session.
Same time next week?
I think that's all the time we have for today.
Let me tell you something, doctor. Chicks love a guy with a bad rap. They say they don't, but they don't mean it. They all think that they're the ones that are going to "save me." The trick is to let them think it's true.
Don't you want to change that?
But you said you have the worst reputation.
And you haven't made an ounce of progress.
Jesus. We've been at this for six months.
I don't know. He was just so charming. All he did was talk about how I had killer legs and how we wanted to photograph them. Things just got out of hand from there. Mom? Are you there? Mom? Mother!!!!
Jesus Christ, how can you be so stupid?
Nudie pictures, what do you think?
Would you cut the psycho babble bullshit, mom. There's pictures of me on the internet.
Alright honey, just calm down, take a deep breath, and step out of the circle.
You don't know him. I'm so stupid.
Who told you?
He told me he loved me and I believed him.
Honey, is something wrong?
Grand Central. You better not be fucking with me cause it's your ass on the line.
Alright. She's staying with some friends of her parents. The O'Sheas. She caught the train twenty minutes ago into Grand Central.
I told you I don't know.
McConnell, I'm gonna out your ass in two seconds if you don't tell me where she is.
I don't know. Why don't you leave her alone.
Where is she?!
Sebastian, you faggot. Is she with you?
Who is this?
Is she with you?
I'll be in touch.
She bought it.
Pretty sure or sure sure?
I'm pretty sure she did.
And you think she bought it?
You told her that people are jealous cause I'm loaded?
You told her I never said I love you before?
Did you do everything I asked you to?
I swear on my life, I never said a word to her about you.
Come on Greg. You're the only one who knows her. The truth will save you.
Annette Harrison? I don't know what you're talking about.
Your career? What about your family? Can you imagine the humiliation your father's going to feel when he finds out his pride and joy is a fudge- packer.
Please don't tell anyone. This could ruin my career.
-- really drunk and blah blah blah blah blah.
I told you to lock the door.
Get out of here.
Greg, is that you under the covers?
Hey Blaine, did I leave my... holy shit.
Baby? Right on time.
Oh baby... oh baby...
Don't worry about it. I'll stay.
Will you stay here for the night? You can leave in the morning. That's when my parents get back and --
He doesn't scare me. I'll kick his ass in.
I'd be careful if I were you. God knows what he's up to.
Racist piece of shit.
It's been going on for a while. Then he called me a disgrace to our family and that's when he hit me.
And this happened before you and I hooked up?
And when I confronted him about his affair with Cecile he told me it was none of my business. Then when I said "Well what about Ronald," he said you were nothing more than a stupid... the n word and that you deserved what you got...
I'll be right there.
I think he's high on drugs. He hit me, then took off. I'm afraid to be alone. Please come over.
What do you mean?
It's Sebastian. He's out of his mind.
Hi Kathryn. Is everything okay?
But I can't even see her. She doesn't have her own phone, I don't even know her e-mail address.
What do you do? Tell her you love her.
Likewise I'm sure.
Pleased to meet you.
War it is.
I think you have your answer.
Then I will consider it a declaration of war. One. Two... three.
And if I don't?
I'm giving you to the count of three to plop your ass down on the bed.
I don't care what you said, we had an agreement. You've slept with half of the borough so don't tell me you're being choosy.
Didn't you hear what I said?
Get out? We had an arrangement.
I accept. Now get out.
I'm very sorry about that. I apologize.
Fine! Get off me!
Will you calm down?
Get off me!
I'm sorry, but unfortunately I don't fuck losers.
In any event, you still owe me my reward.
You were very much in love with her and you're still in love with her. But it amused me to make you ashamed of it. You gave up on the first person you ever loved because I called you names. Don't get me wrong, I'm flattered that you chose me over her, but please understand, I never loved you, Sebastian. You're just a toy. A little toy I play with. And now you've completely blown it with her. I think that's the saddest thing I've ever heard. Cheers.
Silly rabbit. My triumph isn't over her. It's over you.
Not my choice of toast, but it's your call. To your triumph over Annette.
To my triumph, of course.
Thank you. Now, where were we?
Not that it's any of your business but yes.
I'd love to, but unfortunately I'm expecting some company.
I thought we should celebrate.
Devastated beyond repair. I doubt she'll ever trust a man again.
You wanted an answer to your question.
Mind if I ask what you're doing in my room?
I have a flair for drama.
A little melodramatic, don't you think.
I knew this guy last summer in the Hamptons. He and his girlfriend at the time were madly in love with each other. But she had this huge weight problem. His friends taunted him mercilessly about it. You know, "How do you breathe when she sits on your face?" "It's embarrassing for you to be seen with her." Finally he couldn't take it anymore and decided to dump her. She flipped and he went on the defensive. I distinctly remember him saying the same thing over and over again. "I'm completely fucked up." "I'm completely fucked up." "I'm completely fucked up." Poor fatty never had a chance.
Screening calls. Any suggestions?
How have you dumped girls in the past?
I've never done this before.
Why so nervous?
Then do me a favor and get rid of her. If not for me, then do it for you. Look at yourself. You're a joke. She's turned you into jelly. What do you want to be, one of those losers who walk down the halls holding hands and smiling. People used to respect you. They feared you and now you're going to throw that all away.
That's not fair. You're taking all the fun out of it.
Is that what you think?
I can't believe you're reacting this way. You're just saying this because you lost the bet.
Not anymore you don't. It's obvious.
Kathryn, you know I love you. I've always loved you.
At first it was, but now it's become something bigger.
Oh come on, Kathryn, it was just a contest.
I'm sorry. It's just upsetting. You're in love with her. You don't love me anymore.
What's wrong with you? Why are you acting this way?
No, I'm not.
Oh my God. You're completely p-whipped.
And I don't.
I want to fuck.
It clearly is why.
And that's why you're leaving?
I'm not in the mood.
Some other time.
Mock, mock, mock.
Wow. So you made love. Ooo, I hear the birds chirping.
It was... it was like the emotional part outweighed the physical part.
No, tell me.
I know. That's the amazing part of it. I mean, it wasn't like Cirque du Soleil acrobatics, just standard missionary stuff, but it was... ah forget it. I'm going to sound like a Hallmark card.
Oh come on. For her first time?
It was... Fantastic.
Tell me all the details.
Well, you obviously wanted me to witness your little adventure or else you wouldn't have invited me in.
She wouldn't say. She apologized to your aunt and told her she was going to stay with some friends. You blew it, Sebastian. That girl has come to her senses and she will never go near you again.
Where'd she go?
You don't know? She left thirty minutes ago.
Where is she?
If you're heading towards her room, you won't find her.
A momentary lapse of judgment, soon to be rectified.
You're telling me you had the chance to fuck her and you didn't. God are you a chump.
I don't know. She was lying on the bed, ready to do it, but I-- I don't, I was... I just didn't feel right about it.
So what went wrong?
Exactly the opposite.
She shot you down.
If your asking if I nailed her the answer is no.
Well I know how it went with Cecile. She won't shut up about it. How'd it go with Mrs. Jesus?
So? How'd it go last night?
Kathryn, the only thing you're going to be riding is me. Now if you'll excuse me, I have some work to do.
Do you mind if I take my new Porsche for a ride?
I'm not losing the bet. It's just taking longer than I expected.
And that's why you're losing your bet?
If you must know, yes. I don't know what to do. I can't stand that holier than thou bullshit and yet, I'm completely infatuated with her. She made me laugh.
She's really getting to you, isn't she?
What's your problem?
Jesus, she reeks of Laura Ashley. Oh, she's crying. Wittle baby's upset by the big bad book.
Take a look for yourself.
Who are you spying on?
I just had a nice chat with Cecile. I don't think she'll be giving you anymore problems.
Eat me, Sebastian. It's alright for you to fuck everyone, but because I'm a girl it's wrong. Well let me tell you something, I didn't ask to be a girl. Do you think I relish the fact that I have to act like Mary Sunshine twenty four seven, so I can be considered a "laaaady." Do you think I take great delight when I hear - "Kathryn is so wonderful." "Kathryn is a model child." "Kathryn is going to make an excellent wife one day." I'm the Marsha fucking Brady of the upper East Side and sometimes I want to kill myself for it. No, I don't enjoy being a part of the weaker sex and for that reason everyone around me is going to suffer. So there's your psychoanalysis Doctor Freud. Now are you in or are you out?
You amaze me.
What is that? Oh my God, it's your conscience.
Are you really? I mean, we've done some pretty fucked up shit in our time but this... I mean, we're destroying an innocent girl. You do realize that.
Before we go through with this, I just want you to be aware of the damage we're going to cause.
Who are you calling?
Well, let me know when you do. Until then.
Any day now.
Have you succeeded in your task?
Moving along quite well.
I hate it too.
I hate when things don't go my way. It makes me so horny.
Oh sis. You're so tense.
Thank you. Mmmm, that feels good.
I'm at your service.
But who will they turn to for help?
I rat Cecile out to mommy. Mommy goes ballistic and ends their relationship. Boo hoo.
What's your plan of attack?
Not to mention Court Reynolds. Unfortunately, Ronald's moving with the speed of a Special Olympic Bobsledder.
Ooo, I'm sure Mrs. Caldwell will love that.
The plot thickens. It appears that Cecile has fallen for her music teacher.
Call Cecile up and get her to come over. I'll bust that cherry in a heartbeat.
I now plan to devote all my energies to destroying the douche bag. Any luck corrupting her daughter?
You ready for this? I've recently discovered that our good friend Mrs. Caldwell is the one who sent the letter to Annette urging her to stay away from me.
What's wrong with you?
You would not believe what--
Call me later.
I'm working on it.
Fuck her yet?
It would feel so yummy.
You can put it anywhere.
Because I'm the only person you can't control and it kills you.
What makes you think I'd go for that bet? That's a seventy thousand dollar car.
In English. I'll fuck your brains out.
Be more specific.
I'll give you something you've been jerking off about ever since our parents got married.
And if I win?
If you lose, then that hot little Porsche of yours is mine.
What are the terms?
Could you be more desperate to read it?
Oh gee, your journal. Could you be more queer?
Oh well, duty calls. Time to add another chapter to my work of art.
I'll think about it...
Care to make a wager on that?
You don't stand a chance. Even this is out of your league.
It just so happens we're not in Kansas anymore. Our little angel's father has accepted the new headmaster position at Oakwood. She's staying with my aunt up in Connecticut while Daddy sells his house. Can you imagine what this would do for my reputation? Screwing the new headmaster's virginal daughter before school starts? It will be my greatest victory.
B.F.D. What do you plan to do? Fly to Kansas and woo little Dorothy.
Oh yes. I've read it over and over again. This baby's the real deal. Daddy's little angel. A paradigm of chastity and virtue.
Jesus Christ, is she for real?
Shut up and turn to page 64.
I'm not interested in the latest dating tips from Jonathan Taylor Thomas.
That was just simple revenge. What I have planned requires sheer genius.
Oh but diddling the therapist's daughter is a challenge?
Oh come on, Kathryn. It's too easy. "But I thought high school was only four years." I mean, please. She knows nothing. She's seen nothing. I could have her under the table at Au Bar sucking me off before the appetizer arrived. Go get one of those moron friends of yours to do it. I have a reputation to uphold.
She's quite cute you know. Young supple breasts, a tight firm ass and an uncharted pootie.
I need you to seduce our young Cecile. Introduce her to your world of decadence and debauchery.
I see your point... though why should I care?
Because if there's an attack made on Court it could be traced back to me. I can't allow that to happen. Everybody loves me and I intend to keep it that way.
Why go through Cecile? Why not just attack Court?
Keep your friends close and your enemies closer. When I get through with her, she'll be the premier Blow Job Queen of the Tri-State area and poor little Court's heart will be shattered.
So that's what this is all about. We'll get together and plan your curriculum.
I don't find this very funny,
You don't mean?
In any event, my feelings were hurt when I learned that he had fallen for someone else. Someone chaste... pure... innocent.
Oh, poor baby. Well you can relax. I have a mission for you.
Hopefully, though she suspects that your decrepit alcoholic father is diddling the maid.
Lovely. How is your gold digging whore of a mother enjoying Bali? Zipping through my inheritance per usual?
I'm just taking the poor girl under my wing.
Do you care to tell me what Mrs. White-trash and her stupid daughter are doing in my house?
Cecile's attending Oakwood in the fall.
It's the least I can do.
Oh please. I can't have you do that.
Let me get that for you.
You will be discreet about this?
I can't thank you enough.
I know. She's so young and he's so -
Ronald? That's crazy.
It's worse. I think there's something going on between Cecile and her music teacher.
Kathryn, you have my word. It isn't drugs is it?
Well... you promise you won't say anything to her. We've developed a friendship and...
What about her?
Not at all. What's wrong?
I hope I didn't keep you from something.
I got your message and came as quick as I could.
Like your step-brother Sebastian. I can't believe they didn't expel him after what he did to the school nurse.
Don't worry, it's totally understandable. Most of the boys that matriculate at Oakwood are very upstanding gentleman, however there are the occasional bad apples.
I know this sounds corny, but whenever I feel temptations of peer pressure, I... turn to God and he helps me through the problem. Call me an anachronism, but it works.
How do you do it? I mean with all peer pressuring that goes on in high school. Where do you get your strength?
You're too kind.
I'll do my best.
I can't tell you how happy we are that Cecile is going to be attending Oakwood with you this fall. You've always been an inspiration to Beau and I on raising her. We just hope she can rise to the high standards which you've set for her.
I guess that puts me in my place. Thank you for the hospitality Mrs. Caldwell. It was a true awakening.
Oh don't give me any of that racist crap. My husband and I gave money to Colin Powell.
First of all, maam, I never touched your daughter and second, I would like to think that in these times someone of your status could look beyond racial lines.
Whatever. You are never to set foot in this house again and you are never and I mean never to see my daughter again. Is that understood?!
Got me off the streets? I live on 59th and Park.
Is that so?
Mrs. Caldwell I think you're misunderstanding something.
I'm paying you to give cello lessons. Not to pervert my child.
Who the hell do you think you are?!
I understand. Good night.
It's really important.
I'll do that.
Fine. Could you please see that she gets this.
Young man, I already told you she's not here.
Later. Listen, we're entertaining some guests so -
Do you know when she'll be back?
Do you know where she is?
She's not here.
I need to talk to Annette.
What do you want?
I'll do that.
Well please leave a message that I called.
I've already told you, she's not home.
It's desperate that I talk to her.
You must be Sebastian. I've heard such nice things about you.
Hi. Is Annette at home?
Oh... no thank you...
I said, do you want some water?
Yep. Then I fucked your daughter.
Uh huh. You beat me three times.
We played backgammon?
Right after we played backgammon.
Yes, you already did.
Did I ever tell you the time when my late husband sent me -
Don't worry about it.
I understand. Thanks for letting me crash here.
I can't have you do that, nor can I have you hanging around the lobby all day.
Do you mind if I check upstairs?
Did she show up?
Eight o'clock. You got to go.
What time is it?
Ronald, I'm sorry.
Don't know what I'm talking about? I know that you fucked Cecile.
Ronald, you don't know what you're talking about.
Did you hit her?
Kathryn? Oh Christ, she got to you too?
Kathryn. Did you hit her?
What are you talking about?
Where the hell do you come off hitting women?
Can we do it later. I've had a really bad night and -
It seems that you and I have some talking to do.
How will I get to her?
Ronald, e-mail's for geeks and pedophiles. Be romantic. Write her another letter.
She really loves me.
You're a lucky guy.
Wow. I never knew she had these kind of feelings.
Once the emptiness in Amy's life is filled, the dream will go of itself. If a up to you, both of you. Only you two can bring her into a real world.. You must give her the friendship and love she craves.
It's perfectly normal for a child to dream. I can see how a sensitive little girl, finding this portrait, would take the image of this woman and make of her an imaginary friend. That image dwells only in her imagination, and that image can go as quickly as it was born.
I can see it all...the very day it began. Amy was lonely; she was desperate for friendship. I remember the night she told me she had wished on her ring. That must have been the day she first wished for a friend.
What do you mean?
Forgive me, but it was superstition ...foolish, childish wishes...that started, all this.
It's been ages since I've even thought of a mummers' play. When I was in college we used to do them every year  St. George and the Dragon, all kinds of sword dances.
It's one of the clearest memories I have. Twelfth night...burning pine... and mummers' plays.
I love the smell of pine.
No. I only let her go with Edward. It's alright.
Does she go up to the Farren's often?
But quite harmless, I'm sure.
Yes, She's a little odd, I understand.
That the old actress -- Julia Farren?
Yes. As a matter of fact, I was on the point of telling you about it yesterday  about Oliver's first marriage  and his wife's death. It has so much to do with Amy  although he'll never realize it.
I didn't know Mr. Reed had been married before.
We don't even like them, I've often thought of giving it away, but Oliver wouldn't stand for it. It was his first wife's favorite picture. She was an artist.
But you don't keep a cat, do you?
But it is a part of our lives too --a part of our past, It's a Goya reproduction. Those three cats -- are supposed to be the most beautifully drawn cats in Western art.
I know how it is. My Dad collects miniature canon.
Oliver's pet, I'm sure it would be the first thing he'd grab if we ever had a fire.
Hello. I just met Amy and she pointed out where you live.
I'd love to.
I'm so glad to have met you at last. You're just as nice as Amy told me you were. I hope you'll come to see us.
That's exactly what I told Mr. Reed, but he insisted upon remaining home from business to talk to you, Miss Callahan.
to a situation) Really, Mr. Reed, there isn't anything to worry about. It was only a slap --
All right, Amy. Go tell Edward to take you.
But it won't be Christmas tomorrow.
Wouldn't it be just the same, darling, if daddy dropped the present at Mrs. Farren's on his way to town tomorrow morning?
Mommy, could Edward take me to Mrs. Farren's house to give her her present?
You can't open it yet. You have to put all of them under the tree until morning.
Oh, thank you, darling.
All right, mommy.
Look! Why don't you run out and play? The sun's shining.
What's her name?
She was very pretty.
It was right there on top. Isn't she pretty?
Where'd you get this, darling?
I had my breakfast while you were still asleep.
Edward will give you your breakfast, Amy.
Sh! Then you must keep it true. Goodnight, darling.
But it's already come true.
You mustn't tell anybody, or it won't come true.
I got my wish anyway.
Well  the mother or daughter -- whichever one gave it to you. You ask Edward to go with you.
I really don't know, but I do know that you must return the ring. You get Edward to take you up there and bring it back to the old lady.
Are they nice?
No dear. I don't know them, but I've heard about them.
Do you know the people?
The Farren house
On the back street  a green house
Someone gave it to you? Where was this old house?
At the old house with the voice.
But where did you get it, Amy?
That's what I wished on. Edward says it's a wishing ring -- and it is!
Where did you get this ring?
I made a wish today, and it came true just like Edward said it would.
Did your wishes ever come true?
Oh, lots of times.
Did you ever make a wish?
Oh, you'll remember it some time.
The song I was trying to hum. The song my friend, taught me.
What song, dear?
I suppose any note, no matter how sour, is a song if you hold on to it long enough.
I wasn't saying anything. I was singing.
What are saying, darling?
I can make wishes like this come true. I'll be just like Daddy wants me to be -- play with the other children -- not sit around by myself  tell the truth --
But Edward, in this kind of a wish that doesn't matter.
You know what I wished, Daddy? I wished I could be a good girl.
You get your wish!
We've got to go on. Amy, here, all this time, you've let your mother and father think you had forgotten that old dream life of yours. Now we find you've only kept it secret.
Oliver, please. Let's not go on with this. The child's trembling.
That darn kid. I never in my life expected her to get an A in arithmetic. Math's is a practical science --- if she understands figures, she's well out of her own world of make-believe.
I suppose so.
Some day I'm afraid we're going to have to tell her about Irena.
Amy picked it off the top of that stack. Perhaps you'd better go through the whole bunch. There may be others of Irena in there.
Where did you get it?
Well, you know where it is.
I haven't had my breakfast.
I'm sorry. I was somewhere else. He returns to the card game.
It's your play.
I thought Amy was calling. I guess not.
What is it, Alice?
I'm not shouting at you, but there's no doubt in my mind that you spoil this child!
You're shouting at me.
I'm never unfair.
You mean you didn't. It seems to me the least you could do. You can't just jump at conclusions that way. You're being unfair.
Well, it seemed to me --
Did you hear the child out?
Amy's been lying again.
My, my, what a coil we're in! What's this all about?
But they must have. Amy and I made them out together. You mailed them, didn't you, Edward?
I called not only the Boyds but the Irvings. Neither of them received invitations.
What do you mean?
I think I should. 3000W?
All right, Ollie. Go ahead. Call the Boyds...3000W...see if their darling Donald has left.
No kids yet. Something's gone wrong. Maybe I ought to call somebody.
Oilie, that's for the children to play with.
Times have changed.
Gosh, in my day kids arrived at birthday parties before anybody was ready for them,
It's nearly a quarter after four. The party was for four, wasn't it?
It's early yet.
Where is everybody?
I forgot I had it on.
Why don't you take off your hat and stay awhile?
Darling, no father could be nicer to a child than you are to Amy.
You make me sound like the father in "East Lynne."
I know, dear. I understand. But try to worry a little less about her -- be a little easier in your thinking. And especially today  let's forget about it. We want a really bang-up birthday party, don't we?
No. It's not that. It's because I know what can happen when people begin to lie to themselves -- imagine things. I love Amy too much to let her lose herself in a dream world where butterflies become pals. I saw what happened to Irena with her Cat People.
That's why I can tell you, straight out, you think too much about Irena -- blame yourself for her death. And its your thinking and brooding about her that makes you so unnaturally concerned about Amy.
I know that.
I'm not a jealous woman, Oliver.
All I have to do is look at Amy's eyes, blue and deep like yours.
She's not Irena's child -- there's nothing of Irena in her. She's my child.
I'd hate her to grow up like that.
I'm sure I don't, Alice. It's something else -- something moody -- something sickly -- She could almost be Irena's child.
I wonder if you don't resent that in her?
Well, it shows imagination, anyhow.
You do that, Edward.
She said something about that, Mrs. Reed  but she didn't tell me it was the Farren house. I'll get my other hat and coat and go over there.
But I told her to go with you.
Is that where she got the ring, Mrs. Reed? She shouldn't be up there.
That's the Farren house.
No, she went runnin' off to some old house she was talkin' about yesterday.
I thought you were with Amy.
And you should. Your mommy tells me you've been such a good girl, and your daddy is so pleased with you.
I got lots of presents.
Maybe I'll drop in and see your Mommy.
I live right here.
No, darling, I hadn't intended to.
Are you coming to see us. Miss Callahan?
Mommy's having a party for me. I asked Robert, and Donald, and Lois --
Your birthday, Amy -- as she goes) -- and I have something for you in my locker. A present.
It's late, Mommy -- you haven't forgotten my birthday party.
Tell me tha real truth. You can see my friend, can't you?
She's upstairs.. .the lady who lives up there.
But there's no one here, darling.
Yes, she was afraid. She said there was someone who wanted to kill me.
I have eyes too, and I tell you no one's there. If you deny that, if you insist that this woman you call your friend is in the garden, then I'm afraid I shall have to punish you. Do you understand?
Listen, darling. I want you to look once more. Take as long as you want. Look very carefully, and then I want you to tell me that no one's there.
But Irena is in the garden. She's right there, under the tree.
Amy, there's nothing there. There's no one at all in the garden.
Don't you see her?...Right there, under the tree.
Where, Amy? Where do you see her?
She's there, just like I said she'd be.
She's there whenever I call her!
In the garden? Would she be there now?
It isn't a secret. She plays with me. She plays with me in the garden all the time. Right out there in the garden, she does!
Because she is my friend.
Amy, answer me. Why did you call her your friend?
Why, daddy, you know my friend too!
This one hasn't got a name on it. Who's this one for, Amy?
She gave me a ring, so I'm giving her a ring. I paid twenty-five cents for it, too.
And this one's for Mrs. Farren.
Just you wait!
This one says, "To Mother from Amy."
These are all from me.
You're upset about me -- I made you fight --I hate for you to fight.
I'm sorry. Daddy and Mommy are a little upset.
Voices from an old dark house!
No, I didn't.
Let me be the judge of that.
Daddy, it's true.
Now look, this is the last time you come to me with any such stories  I'm sick of this sort of thing.
It was just a voice.
And who did the voice belong to?
I did. I came to an old dark house, and a voice called to me -- a lovely, sweet voice ---
Why didn't you run after them?
They ran away.
Because you didn't ask them? I don't blame them for being angry. Why didn't you explain what happened?
It was on account of the birthday party.
What do you mean you didn't play with the other children?
But I didn't play with them, Daddy. They wouldn't play with me.
Can't you tell me later?
I wanted to talk to you, I wanted to tell you about the other children.
What do you want. Amy?
But this is different. Go on blow,
But you told me in the garden-- that the wish about the tree couldn't come true.
Certain wishes do.
But wishes don't come true.
Amy, make a wish. Wish real hard, and then blow out the candles, and your wish will come true.
But, Amy, that was just a story; it wasn't real. That tree's no mailbox.
I didn't forget.
But I told you about that so long ago; you couldn't have been more than three when I told you that tree was a magic mailbox.
Amy, not that old tree!
I'll show you.
Where did you mail them?
Yes, I did.
Did you mail then?
Amy, you remember the party invitations Edward, gave you to mail?
You'll see it when it's all lit and ready for you.
Is that my birthday cake? May I see?
Well, I guess we're not a very proper family.
We open ours on Christmas Eve. That's considered proper.
My goodness, don't you open your presents until Christmas morning?
I don't know yet.
What'd you get for Christmas?
Death's like life. Death's a part of life. It isn't frightening. It isn't the end of everything. It isn't quiet and nothingness. It's a part of all eternity.
But, Amy! Amy...I'm dead.
Oh, it is, it is! Death's terrible.
Amy, listen to me. Death isn't such a terrible thing.
But she's dead!
You mustn't be afraid.
She's dead! I know what it is now when people say somebody died. I know what they mean! And I'm afraid. She's dead; she's dead!
Don't cry, Amy.
It's you...Irena...my friend!
I want to touch it.
It is wildness and freedom. No one can touch it.
May I pet the deer?
It's a warm breath -- warm and strong  warmed by the sunlight that shone on the deer's back in the hot summer; sweet with leaves and mosses.
I can sea its breath in the cold.
Because it knows it can move with the swiftness of strong wind.
It stands so still.
You wanted to share this moment with me.
So beautiful, Irena. So beautiful.
A merry Christmas to you, Amy.
You and I shall enjoy Christmas together. Shall I show you my Christmas gift to you?
Oh, that is more beautiful than I ever imagined it! I wish I could show you to mommy and daddy. I wish you could enjoy Christmas with us.
I shall wear it in my hair!
It reminded me of you, so I bought it. It cost me more than all the others.
Oh, how beautiful!
You can open it now, I guess. Lois Huggins says that's proper,
Oh, thank you, Amy.
Merry Christmas, Irena. I brought you a present.
Oh, but the winter's fun. There's the wind and the snow. You'll like the warm fire upon the hearth, and the long, long nights.
Yes, winter's coming. I don't like the winter,
All right, Amy. Button your sweater, darling. It's turning cold.
My dolls. We can pretend.
No, I don't think that's very much fun. Let's play house instead. You be the friend who comes to see me. I'll show you my children.
Pretend, darling. It's All Soul's Eve. Round about the fire we go... Over the flames we leapt
But we don't have any sea weed.
light shining) in her eyes) Throw sea weeds into the flames, and the fire turns blue!
That one's an elm.
There's an oak leaf. Add a maple.
This is more fun than just pretend.
Yes, yes! I see Prince,
Of course. And Two is the prince who kneels before her on one knee.
Oh yes they do. Look. One is like a tall princess.
The numbers simply don't mean anything
But you must!
I'll just never learn arithmetic.
Can't you get it, darling?
Whenever you want.
You'll always play with me?
Oh, I like the sound of that.., Amy and her friend... Amy and her friend.
No. This must be a friendship that only we shall have... you and I... Amy and her friend.
Not even Daddy...or Mommy?
For always, then. Only you must promise never to tell anyone about me
I shall want you for always.
For as long as you'll let me.
Will you be friend for always?
I can not tell you.
But where is that?
You wouldn't understand. I come from great darkness and deep peace
But where do you come from?
I've wanted a friend too. I've been lonely.
I've wanted a friend.
I'm your friend.
Irena. But who are you?
You called me by my name.
Who are you?
But where has it gone? Where's all the strength and the quickness?
It got hit.
But it was alive  it was fast and strong!
Because it can't. It's dead.
Why is it just lying there? Why doesn't it get up?
Probably hit by a car. Hard to see things in the twilight.
But what happened to the little deer?
Bad luck to see death in the snow.
But I saw what it was. It's the little deer.
Mustn't look, little miss. Mustn't look.
It's a hard winter. All the animals are bold as brass, coming down into the streets for food. You'll see a lot of deer this winter.
There was a deer on the other side of the fence.
But I don't want you coming here alone. You get me to go with you when you want to come here. You promise?
But she's such a nice lady.
Little miss, don't you never come here alone. You gave me a fright, you did.
But Mrs. Farren just started to tell me a story. Please.
About time for you to come home, Amy.
That means I can go alone?
I do suppose so. But if you were there yesterday, guess you can get there today.
You're going to be busy all day long, Edward.
Soon as I finish.
Will you come soon?
You just wait until I finish here. I've got to dust these ships for your Dad.
But I want to talk to you. Mommy says for you to come up to the old house with me. I've got to take back this ring.
Little miss, you're stopping me in my work.
Oh, I suppose it was to the wind you sang, or maybe to the sun, or the clouds, or maybe it was to the flowers in the garden.
I wasn't singing to myself.
Let me take another look at that ring.
I'm trying to.
Been crying? That won't please your Daddy. You'd bettor cheer yourself up.
That's the clever way to do it.
Well, if it's a real mourning ring,. I'm going to think hard for something I want more than anything else in the world before I wish.
They're given to the living in memory of the dead. If this is a real one -- I can't be sure -- you can make a wish, and it will come true in the twinkling of an eye.
the ring up to him) What's a mourning ring?
Maybe, if it's a real mourning ring like we have in Jamaica. All you got to do is turn it on your finger, close your eyes, and make a wish.
A ring that I can wish on like I wished on the candles?
I wouldn't be surprised if it were a true wishing ring.
It's a pretty ring.
Most surely that was a nice lady to give a ring to a little girl.
A lady threw it to me.
That's a fine-looking ring.
Look at my ring.
Mommy's taking me upstairs to change my dress right away.
Getting the yard all fixed up for your party, Amy. You'd better hurry and get yourself fixed up too.
I can't do it! I can't do it!
Yes, yes -
My little girl said she'd kill you if you came to see me. I can't let you die. We'll have to hide you.
Hide me? Why?
No, not people -- just deer and game, but the people he catches can never be free again. They too must kill and kill, covering themselves with blood.
And does he kill people?
Don't you read Shakespeare?
Who's Herne the Huntsman?
Don't you hear it?
A Christmas present. It's been so long since I've had a Christmas present.
I brought you a present. Merry Christmas.
He'll let me stay, Mrs. Farren. He'll let me stay.
It was shot off long ago in the great battles that were fought here; with the British on one side and the Americans on the other.
Why hasn't he got a head?
The Headless Horseman --
Do you know the story of "The Headless Horseman?"
Mommy read it to ne.
Then I'll tell you a story  a lovely story. Do you know the story of Rapunzel?
I like stories.
One little piece of cake won't hurt you. Go ahead, take one. It's full of fruit...citron, cherries and ginger. It'll make you dream. Yes, wonderful dreams.
No, thank you.
There you are. Take some cake, why don't you?
That woman is an imposter, a liar, and a cheat. How do you like your tea? </PRE><PRE> AMY Well... .sometimes I got a spoonful of tea in a cup of hot milk.
Who is she?
She's always spying on me. She creeps into the room. She lives upstairs, yet she's always watching me  always!
The ring? We'll have no more nonsense about the ring.
But I only came to give back the ring.
Stranger? Julia Farren a stranger. Why I've played every theatre from Boston to San Francisco. I've been to London and Paris. Those days  those beautiful, shilling, golden days.
But my mother says I mustn't accept gifts from strangers.
Return it to me? Indeed you may not. I gave it to you as a present.
If you were the lady who gave me a ring, my mother says I have to give it back to you.
I've been watching you. You couldn't see me, but I could see you. It was like peeking through a slit in the curtain before the play began. You would be a very good audience. I can see that.
Good night, mother, good night.
I'll not see her, Barbara. I promise.
If that child comes here...if I find her trying to steal your love from me...I'll kill her. Yes, I'll kill her:
I-shan't see her. No, Barbara, no.
There's another promise you must make me. That little girl who comes here...she mustn't ever come to see you again. Promise me you won't see her.
Yes. Yes, Barbara, I shan't forget.
Promise me you won't forget tomorrow. You'll remember, won't you? You won't say that it was just a dream. Promise me.
Yes, Barbara... Barbara...
Mother! You called me by name!
It was pale...a shadowed gold.
And my hair...what color hair did Barbara have?
Yes...yes, that's true.
And my eyes...my eyes are gray. Look! You see!
Gray. They were a lovely, lovely gray.
Look at me. Look at me, mother darling. Look into my eyes. What color eyes did Barbara have?
Anybody could know that song.
Oh, doesn't that prove something to you? Doesn't it?
My Barbara was killed. I killed her. Yes, it was my fault. Everyone told me not to drive from the theatre. There was a raging wind that night, and snow and ice. All was well until we got to the Sleepy Hollow bridge. Barbara was singing a little song and then ...I don't know how it happened ..when I awakened, they told me the car was overturned, and they wouldn't let me see Barbara. Barbara was dead.
But I am Barbara. I didn't die.
The storms have done everything they can to me, I don't hate them. I don't even hear the wind. It blows beyond me. It was on such a night as this that Barbara died.
I hate the storm. I hate it!
My daughter died long ago.
You didn't even open my present and I'm your daughter.
Look at me.
My daughter, Barbara, died when she was six. That was long ago. You're only the woman who keeps care of me. I know you.
Such a brief visit, but dear child, it has made my Christmas very merry.
It's dark. We'd better be getting on. The family will be waiting.
What is it, ma'am?
Wait a minute. Listen.
It's some animal hurt in the woods that made that sound.
That's from her -- that woman.
There's a present you haven't opened yet, ma'am.
Come away, Amy.
...At the hour of midnight, down the road that goes through Sleepy Hollow, across the bridge, he goes galloping, galloping, always searching, always seeking
Little miss, you can't stay here. You've got to come with me.
On the dark nights  on the stormy nights -- you can hear him. He passes like the wind; The flapping and fluttering of his great cloak beating like gaunt wings. The thunder of his horse's hooves is loud, loud and louder, beating hard, beating strong on the frozen ground as he comes riding, riding, riding.
Now, I don't know Amy --
Let the child stay.
Good heavens! What could you be giving me. Little Miss?
"To Daddy from Amy." Here's one for Miss Callahan. This one says, "To Edward from Amy.".
Indeed I did. Up and down the garden she went, laughing and singing to herself.
That's because she made a promise, and she'a keeping it, aren't you, darling. You saw the way she played this afternoon, Edward.
I didn't even have to coax her tonight.
So do I, Mr. Reed.
I like to see her happy.
Amy looks happy  seems almost as if she were playing with another child; like somebody else were running with her and playing.
She pleaded so to do it
And Amy mailed them?
Well, ma'am, the truth is, I gave them to Amy hersolf to post.
Go on -- out with you.
You won't have long to wait. In just a few minutes this house will be overflowing with boys and girls. Off with you now, Amy. Go out and watch from the gate for all the children who'll be coming.
Got more leaf mold now than we'll ever need, Mr. Reed. I thought I'd burn 'em up and get the yard clean.
I thought we were going to save those leaves you were burning for the compost bin.
I imagine a child would have to commit murder or rob the Seventh National Bank of Tarrytown to be deprived of a birthday party.
When I first heard all that talk about you going down to the school to see the teacher I got really afeard. I thought maybe you night call off this birthday party -- and me with the cake already in the oven.
Yes, everything's all right, Edward.
Everything all right down there at the school, Mr. Reed?
Perhaps she's wanted for understanding.
But we have. She's wanted for nothing.
She needed, a companion, so out of her own hunger she created one. In her mind her friend was in the garden. In her mind her friend never leaves her. Right this very minute I'm sure she's upstairs sobbing out her grief to a friend who exists only in her mind.
But there was nothing, no one in the garden.
But don't you see...it's just what I was about to say to Alice...Amy in her own mind may not be lying.
She refuses to deny it. She continues to believe in her lies.
We'll see that she gets there in good time
You'd better hurry. I've left Amy in the car and she's getting impatient. She tells me there's something especially important about a sixth birthday.
Amy has too many fancies -- too few friends. It worries me. It doesn't seem normal.
Well, that seems a harmless fancy --
No. Amy slapped Donald because he had hurt the butterfly -- and it was her friend.
Something to do with a butterfly-- they were quarreling about it.
I know it may seem stupid of me--but it isn't the slap I'm worried about -- it's the reason.
Looks like a helluva lot more than a make-over. Was there surgery involved?
Jennifer gave her a make-over.
No way is that the same chick. The other one was a dog.
Can we get some service here?
Waiter! She needs more water.
Yeah and when your woman says you're an ass, say yes, I have Abundant Sperm Syndrome.
My brother has an answer to PMS. A-S-S: Abundant Sperm Syndrome. A man gets sperm build-up, and if his woman isn't givin' it to 'em, he's gotta get it elsewhere.
I don't believe in PMS. Women made it up just so they can be bitchy.
I'm lucky Jen's not like that.
What's with her? If they're not bleeding they're PMSing. If they're not PMSing, they're warning you about the impending doom. If you're lucky, you get a sane person one week a month. Then you gotta date three or four women just to get some normalcy in your life.
Sorry about Frida. She's been friends with Jen forever.
That many women in one place -- nothing good can come from that.
It all starts with them going to the bathroom together.
Never felt better.
I mean body temperature. Do you have a fever?
I've been working out.
Wow your body's really hot.
Your lips look delicious.
Yeah but they looked cool...
Yul Brynner. They're all dead.
James Dean, Humphrey Bogart...
Yeah yeah I know. Smoking kills. I'll quit someday. Doesn't it seem like all the cool people smoke?
You shouldn't smoke. It'll kill you.
I've changed a lot lately.
Sorry I didn't recognize you earlier. You look so different.
Yeah that's like a three bagger. Today a bag is also a condom, so now a three bagger can be a chick that's really hot. So hot you gotta put several condoms on to dull the senses.
Maybe that bartender made it up. I mean I think coyotes are rather beautiful. Maybe "coyote ugly" is really a compliment. Like someone who's conventionally "ugly" but is really beautiful.
No one I've run into knows what "coyote ugly" means.
Don't apologize. It's great to see a woman really enjoying her food. I hate it when I buy a woman dinner and she won't even touch it.
Sorry, don't mean to be wolfing down. I'm just starving.
Guess you like those Coyote Ugly steaks now, huh?
Now it's menopause. She's always hot. I gotta wear a parka around the house cause she keeps it so cold. It's always something.
Does she have PMS?
Diet and exercise, that's all there is. I'm not a big proponent of the PMS craze, but there's a book my wife mentioned called "The PMS Diet," which may be helpful.
I get crazy dreams and I black out.
Sounds all stress related. Your teeth may feel sharper if you're grinding them at night. You don't seem hairy to me. Is that all?
Okay, but I'm worried about the next PMS bout. It's gotten worse. I'm not myself during it. I get bloated, irritable, my breasts get huge, my nails turn into claws, my teeth get sharper and I have more facial and body hair.
How have you been feeling?
That bite healed up quickly. It's been about three weeks?
It's not just in my head.
And keep a journal of your symptoms to make sure it's related to your period and not just in your head.
What else is there?
That's just part of being a woman. Diet and exercise should help. Avoid salt, sugar, starches, caffeine, alcohol...
It's hard to describe. I get really bloated and irritable and emotional and depressed and...
PMS. What symptoms are you experiencing?
Good. Except for PMS.
How's the rest of your health?
No, it was another woman.
A dog at Victoria's Secret?
Oh, on my wrist.
I mean where on your body?
There was a sale.
At Victoria's Secret.
A bite... Where'd you get bitten?
It's okay if you are, we just want to know. I don't want to be expecting grandchildren if...
No, I'm not a lesbian. Geez mom.
You haven't mentioned dating anyone since Mark and, well you're not a lesbian are you?
What does that have to do with me?
We're worried about you. "60 Minutes" was on same-sex couples.
No it's mom.
Sure. See ya.
God I hope so. Hey can I call you later? Peter's still here. He's in the shower.
Oh thank god. Maybe this whole thing is really over.
Never been better. Peter spent the night. I must really love him. He's still alive.
Frida? You okay?
Yes, just check on me once a day for the next three days. Then the PMS should be over.
Sorry -- I shouldn't go on about myself at a time like this. Are you sure you're going to be okay?
I wish I only had your problems.
We were -- I was just so tempted... It was sort of a test. I think after sleeping with Benito I know I want to be with George. But now George knows about Benito and he doesn't want to be with me!
I thought you and George were getting married.
No, he's the guy I'm having an affair with.
Did I kill a guy named Benito?
About Mark? Carlton?
I think George knows.
The werewolf always dies at the end. Didn't you see "American Werewolf in London?"
No. I won't let you do that.
No. I can't take that chance. I'd rather kill myself.
I guess you'll find out.
But how do I know if I really love Peter? And if he really loves me?
Remember what Madame Sconce said. If you love him he'll be fine.
I'm just afraid I'll hurt Peter. I think I love him.
You'll get through this. You were fine for over three weeks.
I tried to kill myself -- earlier. It doesn't work. I think I need silver bullets. So I got depressed and when I'm depressed I clean.
You scared the shit out of me. I thought you were killing yourself.
I'm cleaning my stove.
I think I already have.
Fall in love.
So what do I do?
What choice do we have?
So... she was a werewolf. Do you think we can believe all this?
The weird thing is... he shot her with a silver bullet.
Guess she never found true love.
She died at age 34 in the 1800's. They thought she was crazy. She was banished from her town. Seems her husband shot her.
Who is this Madame Sconce? Let's find her and talk to her.
"The female-cycle werewolf will only kill men and never kills someone she truly loves." See I knew you never loved Mark.
Great so all I have to do is fall in love? Like I haven't tried that for the past 24 years.
This is from a scientist in France, Madame Sconce. "The original werewolves were females. They became werewolves on the lunar cycle because it corresponded to the woman's cycle. My suspicion is that the only cure is true love."
Check out what I found.
"Paranoia, insecurity, depression, changes in vision, feelings of losing control; belief that you have a mental problem..." Nothing about turning into a werewolf.
We don't know you're a werewolf. It might never happen again. You have to get on with your life.
The thing is, I really like him. I finally meet a guy I really like and I'm a fuckin' werewolf.
Maybe you should go out with him. If you keep avoiding him he'll get suspicious. Besides, what better way to not get busted than to date the cop who's investigating you.
Peter keeps asking me out.
Symptoms include loss of emotional control, compulsive behavior, cravings, crying spells...
So are you. Look, go about your life. Act like nothing's wrong. We'll get to the bottom of this.
You're such a good friend.
Let's do some research. I'll check the libraries. You surf the web.
Probably for three weeks or so anyway. I'm not sure -- I don't get how it works.
Does that mean this whole thing is over?
I think I just got my period.
Well if he does, he didn't give you away. He must really like you.
Peter knows something.
What the fuck are we going to do?
Tell them you'll meet them outside.
Fuck it's the cops. Peter saw me, now I have to let him in.
You expecting someone?
You should have seen it erect.
At least I finally saw the reason you couldn't get over Mark.
Okay, let's say that this is PMS- related. You think those male cops are going to understand that? You'll either be locked up for murder or locked up in the looney bin. We have to keep this hidden until we figure it out ourselves.
That's a terrible thing to say. Frida goes back to scrubbing the floor.
If you ask me, the fucker got what he deserved. I'm glad he's dead.
I could smell another woman on him.
Why the fuck would you do that?
I think I turned into a werewolf and killed him.
You say murder, but you have no idea what happened. You don't remember doing it, so it's out of your control.
You're right. It's just, I can't cover up a murder so George won't know you're cheating.
How could I? I'm helping you clean up Mark's remains and you ask how could I cheat on George?
You're cheating on George? Jennifer, how could you?
There's kind of this guy I'm seeing.
What? Why'd you do that?
First of all, you're my alibi. I told George I was with you last night.
Why not? There's been a murder.
DON'T call the police.
I should call the police. Oh no Peter. Peter is the police!
What happened to his tooth?
Yeah, I guess. Mark?
He's been here all night?
I don't know... I'm spaced out... he was taking a shower... He must be still in there.
Did you get rid of Mark?
Holy shit, I don't know.
I'm stopping by later. I'm worried about you. Bye.
Okay, I gotta go.
Get rid of him!
Relax. Carlton was torn apart. No way could you have done that. Maybe you saw someone kill him and blocked it out... or...
Oh my god Jennifer. I should go to confession.
And he was missing an arm.
Frida, Carlton's dead.
Shit, I guess I missed work.
Tuesday. Are you okay?
I've been here. What day is it?
Frida? I was worried to death about you. I've called you for two days. Where have you been?
I don't know. You have to take Sammy. He's afraid of me.
Frida, listen to yourself. If I said I was a werewolf, would you believe me?
I haven't gotten it yet.
Maybe the blood was from your period like before.
It took me an hour to clean it up. That was not in my head!
You're delusional. Maybe you had a bad dream and bit your lip -- so you tasted blood. And the severed arm... well I don't see it and... maybe this is all in your head.
No, last night I think I chased Carlton around as a wolf and killed him. I woke up with a taste of blood in my mouth and a severed arm in my bed. And my throat hurts.
You're a PMS werewolf. Of course. Frida, are you on drugs?
Because of PMS, I get hairy, my nails turn into claws, I eat raw meat, I roam the city hunting for flesh. I've become a werewolf!
And what makes you think you killed a man?
I put it down the garbage disposal.
So where's this infamous arm now?
Frida, you're not making sense. I can't come over right now.
Please come over. I'm begging you. What should I do with the arm? Should I call the cops or... Peter?
No! Not fucked him, I think I killed him.
You fucked Carlton? See I told you he liked you.
Jennifer. A severed arm. It's bloody and... I'm not sure but it may be Carlton's.
There is a man's arm in my bed.
Frida, this is a bad time. We're having sex and George actually answered the phone.
I look like fuckin' Chewbacca.
It's just cause mine is finer. A little bleach'll fix that.
Yes they are! Look how much more hair I have than you!
No they're not.
Oh my god, look. My arms are so hairy!
No you don't, believe me.
Geez, I wish I'd get it like that.
I can't help it. My bra wouldn't even fit. I've been going to Victoria's Secret and exchanging bras for bigger ones and still I'm busting out. It's this PMS.
You might want to tape your nipples down next time. It's really distracting.
I still thought it was a purse.
Bag means condom now? I can't keep up with the word "bag." It used to be "No, that's not my bag" -- meaning not my thing. But now "my bag" means "my fault."
It is so hot in here.
Oh my god. I've never had that before. I've had guys say they want me to suck their dicks and gross stuff but no one's ever said "Hey there beautiful."
I think he called you beautiful.
What did he say?
You're just saying that.
Well whatever it was, seems to have worked cause you look great.
I started out on that eye-of-newt diet the doctor gave me and wound up in the tub covered in chocolate.
Great. George is meeting Carlton first for drinks. We can meet and go together. It'll be a blast.
Okay. I guess so.
No he didn't. Come on, I don't want to be alone with those two. All they talk about is basketball and it bores the hell out of me.
Hey, Carlton's in town -- come out with the three of us.
It's just as well. I'm afraid of getting hurt again. Mark seemed great at first too. I don't want to get too attached to Peter and then find out he's a creep.
Frida, this hair thing is all in your head. You're using it as an excuse not to get close to anyone.
We almost slept together... and... then the hair started and I booked.
How'd it go with the cop?
I looked like an Italian man!
You have to stop being so self- critical Frida.
I'm freaking out. I'm like an animal and totally out of control. My arms keep getting really hairy.
You're at his place, and you come out of the bathroom looking all shy and say, "I'm so embarrassed but could you run out and get me some tampons?" If he says no, he's too embarrassed, then you know he's a wus. If he says he's got some in the bathroom, then you know there are other women around a lot. But if he says yes and goes to get you tampons, well then he's a decent guy. Then, while he's out...
What the hell is the tampon test?
Give him the tampon test.
I don't know much about him. How do you know if a guy is decent?
Hmmm. Sounds suspicious.
I don't think I've ever actually liked anyone I've dated before. Peter even likes me without makeup.
Frida, I'm your friend. I'm not judging you... You didn't sleep with the creep did you?
I'm sorry. I didn't want you to think I was still a doormat.
Why didn't you tell me? You said you hadn't seen him for a month.
Um, he stopped by yesterday before you came over.
Gross, so this is Mark's flesh? When did you see him?
He wasn't wearing a ring. But you don't want to date a cop Frida. They're so blue collar.
I wonder if he's married.
Rule one: always wear make-up.
He was cute, huh? Of course whenever I meet a guy, I'm wearing no make-up.
Uh huh... good thing those cops didn't see that.
No, Mark wears boxers. They must have been in the dryer already.
Are those Mark's?
My vision got worse again.
I thought you were going to stop wearing your glasses.
And my bra finally fits again.
At least your PMS is over.
I think I went in and fell asleep. I guess Gregory walked home and got killed! I blacked out.
He was trying to get into my apartment and... I know this sounds gross but I was so turned on. I grabbed him and kissed him!
What? Why the hell did he do that?
I couldn't stop eating steak. I felt out of control -- like I was making up for all those years being a vegetarian. I couldn't get enough. And then Gregory walked me home... and he peed in front of me.
I guess you're off that vegetarian kick you've been on for ten years.
I ate a burger in the afternoon and a steak and a half with Gregory.
Did you get smashed or what? You have to eat if you're drinking. And not just those little salads.
I don't remember. We kissed at my door and next thing I knew I woke up with my period. Alone.
You don't think so? You either did or your didn't.
No. I don't think so.
No, did you fuck him?
Did I kill him? Of course not!
So did you do it?
To sound like big macho cops. He was probably just found with a knife in his back.
Why would they exaggerate?
I'm sure they were exaggerating.
And he was ripped limb from limb?
There you go, blaming yourself for everything again.
He's dead? Am I bad luck or what?
Oh, my glasses! Maybe my eyes got stronger from not wearing them.
Hey, did you get contacts?
You are not Frida, we all have a little hair there. I didn't even notice till you showed me. We can bleach that, it's no big deal.
Holy shit, I'm a freak.
I don't see anything. Maybe just a little.
Where? Where do you think a mustache would be. Look!
They better. Of course, trouble is, you never know what they'll expect for it. You gotta know what to order, and what you're willing to do. Like if a guy spends a fortune on you, he's gonna feel like you owe him something.
I never thought of it like that. I never know what to do on dates. Do guys still pay?
Are you kidding? He might as well say, "Can I date rape you?"
Maybe they have to pee.
What I really hated about dating was the lines guys used to get into my apartment. "Can I use your phone?" "How about a nightcap?" "I want to meet your cat." And my all-time favorite, the old standby, "I have to use your bathroom."
You're so lucky you have George and don't need to go on dates anymore.
Maybe he likes you, ever think of that? It's good for you to go out -- get your mind off Mark.
Why did Gregory ask me out? I mean he's cute -- he probably just wants to pitch his screenplay idea.
I kind of asked him to. We were, you know... he got a little carried away...
George bit you?
What a bitch. You should see a doctor. That can be dangerous. George bit me once and I had to go to the emergency room.
I think she broke the skin.
Even on sale that stuff's a fortune. I worked all week to pay for a bra.
And she got the medium.
Can you believe she fuckin' bit me?
Frida, grab that red one.
Where are all the mediums?
There's a sale. It's such a nice place -- classical music, relaxing atmosphere. You deserve to pamper yourself. Come on, it can't hurt.
I don't know.
It's not about him seeing you in it. It's how you feel. You'll feel sexy in lingerie and it'll show. It's an inner thing.
What do I need overpriced fancy underwear for? Shouldn't a guy have already decided that he likes me before he sees me in lingerie?
Okay, just one more stop and you'll be all set. Victoria's Secret.
Or if your boyfriend's an asshole.
Or if there's a full moon.
Try to get through dinner without them. You have beautiful eyes.
No, it grosses me out even thinking of putting something in my eye.
Can't you get contacts?
Only to see.
Do you really need these?
You're just saying that.
How about I give you a make-over? You'll feel better about yourself. You're actually pretty, you're just not bringing it out.
I'd kill for just a little bloated.
I get a little bloated sometimes.
Sorry. It's just so bad lately. You're so lucky you never get PMS.
Frida, I don't mean this as a criticism, but you might not want to talk about PMS around men.
My date always pays more attention to you than to me.
Maybe he's just shy.
He hasn't said one word to me.
People notice you Frida.
I wonder what it's like being you. Being noticed all the time.
So don't look in his eyes.
I guess I have a weakness for him. It's those big brown Bambi eyes.
Every woman at some point has to date a musician. I wish you'd get rid of Mark for good. Every time you break up you see him more than when you were going out.
He's a very talented musician.
Your shrink always gives you bad advice. He only hears what you choose to tell him. Mark's an asshole, he cheated, he borrowed money and never paid it back, he's never had a regular job.
My shrink says he's not so bad.
Anything's better than Mark.
Translation: a total geek.
Well that's not going to happen tonight. George said Carlton's a nice guy.
Yeah even then look what happened: Michael Mortenson kissed you and Billy Sullivan threw a worm at me.
Come on, we've been double dating since the fourth grade.
I have cramps. I can't believe I let you talk me into this.
Yeah. Whip it out. You want me to see it -- that's what this is all about, right?
So pee? Here?
Uh huh. So pee.
I wouldn't mind doin' something else, but I do really have to pee.
You're just saying that to get into my apartment and then you're hoping that'll turn into something else.
Yes I do have to pee!
You don't have to pee.
Knock what off?
Oh come on. Knock it off.
That's okay. I just have to use the bathroom and then I'll leave.
My apartment's just such a mess.
I didn't have to pee then.
You should have gone at the restaurant.
I really gotta pee.
Well I have it worse than cramps. Goodnight Gregory.
They say sex is great for cramps.
No. Really, I'm... I don't feel well. I've got terrible PMS.
Come on, didn't all that steak make you thirsty?
I'm really tired.
Hey, how about a little nightcap?
I'd really feel more comfortable paying for my half of the dinner.
That's great. Highly original.
Well, whattdaya think?
So there I was, hanging from the edge of a bridge, when my mom said, "Son, you got into Harvard!" It took three of them to pull me back! Frida keeps eating.
You said you're starving. Come on, I can't stand a woman who won't eat.
I'm not really hungry after all.
Man I'm starving too, I think I'll go for the Surf and Turf.
No, I'm serious. How about we have dinner and I tell you about it?
You're kidding, really?
Oh, a D-Girl. You know... I have a really great idea for a screenplay.
I do development for TV movies.
So you're Grant's secretary?
Take your shower.
I just need a place to lay low for a few days. Come on, I know you hate me but you can't wanna see me at the bottom of the East River?
My bra is my biggest supporter.
Come on, I'm your biggest supporter.
Somehow this winds up being my fault? You always blame me.
It's the truth. If you'd just loaned me the money last time this never would have happened.
You think that story's gonna make me loan you money?
These guys aren't the kind that'll take an apology. They're the kind that'll break my thumbs.
So pay them back and apologize.
I did something stupid. I had a courier job -- picking up a package from the airport. It turned out to be money -- so I kind of borrowed it to pay my rent and now these dudes are after me.
Come on Frida, I'm not kidding. I'm totally fucked. Let me in.
This really isn't a good time.
It's a matter of life and death.
Frida? I hear you talking. I know you're in there. Let me in.
I'm kinda borrowing it. Who's this, Mr. Date-Guy?
Where'd you get the bike?
I'm working on it...
You haven't even paid me back the thousand bucks you owe me!
Hey wait, I paid three bucks for that burger. You owe me...
Yeah right... You better go.
Frida, you know you're it for me.
Worried about what all your girlfriends might think?
OUCH that stings! Damn, what am I going to do with my back like this?
I can't help it, it smells so good.
Shit. And you're eating my burger? You don't eat meat.
Oh my god, I'm sorry!
Look what you did!
You do though. You look really... is that a wonderbra?
You never say that.
You look different. I mean you look good.
Since when do you care?
What, you got a date or somethin'?
Very well then. Is that all?
No. I quit. Take your lame ass ideas, your fake ass toupee, your fat ass wife and your ugly ass kids and shove them.
Uh... yes. Not for us. No woman in jeopardy. Find me Dr. Quinn Medicine Woman. Find me a true story about a crazed killer stalking beautiful women.
Mr. Grant. Did you read that script I was talking about?
I'll make a note of that. Put the coverage on my desk.
I think we should do something with strong female characters...
Yes, that's what we're looking for.
I can't read any more crap. These women are all victims.
Did you change your hair?
How about a "Man in Jeopardy" story?
On your desk.
On your desk.
Here's a towel.
I'm going to take a shower.
I know. The important thing is that it stop.
I'm so sorry... I... I couldn't help it. You know I didn't mean to... to do any of that.
No way can anything be proved. All they have are some wolf hairs. No one believes in werewolves.
What about... those guys... I might have...
Sure. Cheating, lying. What's a little werewolf a few days a month? We can move out to the country where you can feed off deer.
Worse than this?
We can work this out. Other couples have worse problems.
Maybe we should have children. I don't think I'd kill the father of my child.
I knew you wouldn't kill me.
I'm staying here with you tonight. There's no getting rid of me.
No. It doesn't work that way. Men can't get PMS. Unfortunately.
Can't you bite me and then I'll be like you?
I have the silver bullets in case I need to protect myself. Does that make you feel better?
I can't take that chance... I couldn't live with myself if I did anything to you.
I don't think you would. No matter what form you take.
How do you know?
I don't think you'll hurt me.
Peter I love you too but...
I'm not afraid. Frida! I love you.
Go away. I might hurt you.
I knew you wouldn't believe me! Just go away. Go very far away!
If you don't like me, just say so. You don't have to make up some bullshit like you're a werewolf.
No you can't. It... it gets so bad that I become a werewolf.
Yes, your PMS. Frida I can deal with that.
You want the truth? Remember I tried to tell you something the other day?
You at least owe me the truth.
Yes or no? Frida, can't you just be honest with me?
Yes, sort of. I mean no, not really.
What? Is there someone else?
NO! Don't come over. Peter... I... I don't want to see you anymore. Ever.
Frida? You okay? Look, I think I know what happened to Mark. I want to help. I'm coming over.
No. But I don't mind hairy. Are you okay?
I did shave... Do I seem hairy? Peter laughs.
No, it's a good thing. I like it. Everything about you is great. I like how you don't shave your legs. Women are so much sexier when they're natural.
They do? Oh no...
Your breasts feel larger.
I loaned him to Jennifer. George moved out and she was lonely...
You know, I've never seen your cat.
They're for my cat. I use them to train him not to rip up paper.
What's with the squirt guns?
I love you too.
You didn't say it.
Like I had to say it? No, I wanted to say it.
Is that how you feel?
No, it's just... no one's ever said that. And I thought if someone did ever say it, I'd have to say it first and then they'd sort of say "I love you too" cause they felt they had to after I'd said it.
Is it that funny?
No, my bite's a lot worse.
You can't mean that. I'm sure your bark is worse than your bite.
This is a lot worse than "Betty."
That's it? Hell my mom chased my dad around with a knife when she had it. She made us call her a different name. She'd say, "You're talking to Betty now" and we'd leave the house for a few days.
Speaking of Mark -- we've tried to track him down and there's no sight of him. Vanished into thin air. I got a hunch he fled the country.
No, but thanks for the warning.
Did I tell you I have the worst sense of humor and I make bad jokes at totally inappropriate times?
What's that supposed to mean?
Except Mark of course.
Yeah, every guy you date winds up dead.
I just don't know if I should be dating anyone right now.
I thought we were starting something... and then... I know it's unorthodox, I mean with you being involved in the case and all.
No, I got it. It's okay.
I need to talk to you. About us. Frida... I... Can I carry your box?
Yeah sort of. Where's Lloyd?
Frida. I was looking for you. You changing jobs?
He was ripped to shreds also. In his apartment.
Still haven't figured out how he or anyone else pulled that off. Never seen anything like it.
But you said the bodies were ripped to pieces?
Mark wouldn't hurt a fly.
No, no... But Mark -- a jealous boyfriend gone mad. Maybe he kills men you date.
It wasn't a date. Jennifer invited me along to dinner with them.
You had a date with Carlton?
Uh... the buzzer's broken. I'll be down in a second.
Frida, can we come in? We need to talk to you. It's important.
A man killed in Central Park.
NO! I... I checked when I put my stuff in. I always look through the washer first.
You sure? It's my favorite shirt, mind if I check?
No. Nope, nothing in it.
Was there anything in that washer?
I'm sorry -- I'm on edge today.
No. I was doing my laundry.
Oh my god, you scared the shit out of me. You following me again?
Frida, wait. Don't go. We can just sleep. I just want to wake up with you.
No. No, I'm fine. Maybe I should go. I mean... I don't want our first time to be like this.
I mean we can still... whatever... Maybe I should get a towel?
My period? No.
Oh, nothing's wrong. Just... well don't you have your period?
Okay, you busted me.
I'm a cop -- I notice everything. That drawer's ajar, that picture's been moved about an inch, the closet wasn't closed when I left...
Oh just my wolf paraphernalia. Some people collect beanie babies... I collect silver bullets.
What are they for?
Silver bullets. A collectors item. These are very valuable. They were melted down from a crucifix.
What are those?
Thanks for the walk. Maybe we could... get a bite sometime?
I really gotta get going.
He's bad news. He cheated on me, he insults me. Now suddenly he gets jealous if I have a date.
Me neither. That's why I wear briefs... So why did you and... Mark break up?
Cool. I don't get guys who wear boxers. My ex wore boxers. I never got how he could wear khakis and not have his boxers bunch up.
How about you? Briefs or boxers?
Yeah but a guy hung like a horse would need briefs to keep things in line.
A lot of people don't wear underwear.
You know how moms always tell you to wear clean underwear in case you're in an accident? Well this guy wasn't wearing any underwear.
Sometimes it's frustrating. Like this Gregory Jameson case. We don't even know what killed him. I'm putting together little details to see if we're missing something.
I've read scripts about detectives, but never met one. Must be wild.
The weird thing is I've had an odd, morbid fascination with wolves ever since.
I'm so sorry Peter. Gee, that sure puts my problems in perspective.
We lived in northern Minnesota. She went for a walk one night and they never found her body -- just her torn apart clothes with her blood and wolf blood on them. Then the town rounded up bunch of hunters and shot all the wolves in the area.
Oh my god, by wolves?
I've had time to get over it. She was killed by wolves they think.
No, she died when I was twelve.
Used to? Did it stop finally?
My mom used to get PMS too.
I can forgive you a bestseller.
No really, I love knowing what people read.
Oh, it's nothing.
So what book did you buy?
Okay well. Maybe some other time. They continue walking together.
No. Really. I don't drink coffee anymore. I used to love it but my tastes have changed recently.
Some decaf then? That was stupid. Obviously you said you were staying away from caffeine as a nice way of blowing me off.
I'm trying to stay away from caffeine.
You wanna get some coffee?
There's a lot of that going around.
That's my ex. He's an asshole. In case you couldn't tell. I think he's been following me.
Being a cop has such a warm effect on people.
At least let me give you this back. I washed it.
I gotta get going. Peter gets the pillowcase out of his bag.
No... no... this is embarrassing. I was returning your pillowcase... and I saw you cross the street... and I sort of started following you. I just find you really intriguing. I don't know why.
Are you following me?
You busted me.
Okay, if you think of anything else, please give us a call.
I wish I could help but last I saw Gregory was outside my front door.
We... he walked me home and... we said goodnight. Um, he kissed me goodnight and that was it.
When's the last time you saw him?
You use the word "fucking." You're sexualizing things. Stop berating yourself. It's okay to have sex.
Cause I'm a fucking werewolf!!
You say you killed a man and don't remember it. Couldn't you have had sex and not remember it? It's sexual. Why did you choose "eating him" as the method of killing?
We didn't have sex.
Dreams about killing usually signify feelings of guilt. You had sex last night and you feel guilty.
I don't know. I don't remember doing it.
And how did you feel when you ate this guy?
I ate a guy last night.
Let's explore this. What makes you feel you're a werewolf?
I think I'm a werewolf.
Oh, I see... interesting theory.
That I'm a doormat of course. The shrink makes more notes.
Packages of money.
No he's not. He's a courier. He picks up packages from the airport.
No, I have a cat.
You got a dog?
No. We left the restaurant, and... and I felt sick... so... so I took a cab home. Alone.
What makes you think I was the last one?
Seems you were the last to see Carlton alive. And the last to see Gregory alive.
Yes, Jennifer told me. What does that have to do with me?
You heard about Carlton Fraser?
No, take it.
We can get a warrant if you like.
No, I said it was our first date.
A kiss? Did you have sex with him?
Looks like it was your only date. Unless you go to his funeral.
No, it was our first date.
Did he come home with you? Did you go to his apartment?
Yes... I... we had dinner.
Oh my god, what happened?
It's about Gregory Jameson. He's dead.
She's my best friend. I gotta be there for her -- no matter how crazy it sounds. I've been in some bad relationships and she's been there for me. She's lonely. If pretending she's a werewolf helps, then more power to her.
You can't believe this bullshit.
Take some allergy medicine.
Oh great. What the fuck am I supposed to do?
Don't be stupid George. Obviously if she's a werewolf, she can't be around a cat. She might eat it and besides, cats are afraid of wolves.
You have some weird friends. What does her thinking she's a werewolf have to do with us having the cat?
It's so bad she becomes a werewolf.
I'm supposed to put up with a fuckin' cat I'm allergic to cause your friend's got PMS?
Tell her I'm eating.
It's for you. Frida.
So now being with Frida is lucky? I thought you said she was a flake.
Carlton insisted on leaving with her. Maybe he got lucky.
I wonder how Frida and Carlton are getting along?
She'll talk about PMS and stare at her salad.
She's just insecure. Once you get to know her she's fabulous.
She's just so... pathetic.
Come on, I've been working with Frida. Carlton won't even recognize her now. She's really coming out of her shell.
Yeah and when we're mad at each other we're out of sync. It only works if you're on good terms.
He was saying that when women are close friends they get their periods at the same time.
Two bags for them, and one bag for your head in case her two fall off.
So I asked the bartender what "coyote ugly" meant. It's like the "bagger" system. You know, a two- bagger -- someone so ugly that you need two bags -- one bag to put on their head and another one in case it blows off. Or a three-bagger...
He's been running money for the Mafia.
See he was cheating from the get go.
I don't know, I guess the outfits are cool. And I want a big gun.
Why would you want to be a cop?
I was thinking about becoming a cop myself. Do you take a test or something or just sign up?
We can just take this pillowcase.
You want her sheets?
We're just trying to figure out what happened.
How the hell is that your business?
Yeah, sorry. Uh... Gregory's roommate told us you were out with him last night.
Jesus Christ she got her period. Relax guys. It happens.
Can't figure out the species. Similar to a wolf. They're jokin' at the lab that a werewolf probably killed him. Ain't that the stupidest thing you ever heard?
What kind of animal?
Just this morning. Animal hairs were found all over the victims.
Did we get those DNA tests back?
And that was 28 days ago today.
So... they're on some cycle. The murders... Gregory... then 28 days later... Carlton.
She says she's on the rag every time I get called in to investigate a murder.
What makes her think that?
My girlfriend's predicting another murder in the next few days.
Which brings up an interesting point. I wasn't following you. I was following the suspect. And you just happened to be there...
What the fuck are you following me for? I'm not a suspect here.
I know. I followed you. To the zoo, to her house, to your house...
What are you talking about?
And fifth, you're dating her.
Okay Lloyd. First, no way does Frida have the physical strength to tear a guy to shreds. Second, why would she be so obvious and let it be known she was the last one to see these guys? Third, she's the one in danger. She's a woman in jeopardy and you're layin' a murder rap on her. Fourth, I look in her eyes and know she's no killer.
It has to be Frida. This makes three guys ripped apart who are tied to her ass.
Hard to tell. Looks like he's been cleaned up and he's decomposing as we speak. This case gets weirder by the minute.
You think mafia hit?
Like a vampire or some shit?
It's like some fucking monster dropped out of the sky and killed these dudes.
It's a bit farfetched that Mark would rip guys to shreds just outta jealousy. This makes no sense.
Spencer's the key here. Frida is in no way associated with him. And her blood hasn't matched with any of the killings.
One of our only leads... You had dates with both men right before they were killed.
Seems he's stolen money from them. He's desperate and our only lead.
This one walk you home too?
He means the last that we know of.
She wasn't the last one to see them alive. Whoever killed them was.
Yeah okay. I still say Frida's involved. She's the last one to see two dudes alive...
Deal. And if some mutherfucker's about to blow me away, shoot him.
Poseur was missing a chunk of his neck. And his eyes were open. That always bugs me out. Do me a favor, if some mutherfucker's about to blow me away, remind me to close my fuckin' eyes.
The park dude was missing an arm.
Nah, East Village poseur was grosser than the dude in the park.
You take the cake Lloyd. Come on, she's not here. Let's check out her psycho ex.
Sounds like you got a conflict of interest.
She's not a suspect. What is her motive? There's nothing, NOTHING connecting her to either crime except that she dated both guys.
She's got a hidden pitbull. Maybe she hired someone to kill them.
Okay Lloyd, you tell me how she killed them.
This is more than fishy, this chick dates a dude and he winds up dead.
We only live a few blocks apart.
I still don't get when you gave her back the pillowcase.
And he was missing an arm.
He was found nearly ripped to shreds in Central Park.
And you think I'm sick?
Hairy women are kind of sexy. Women in their natural state.
Back in the '80's. You didn't see the pictures? They were from before she got famous. She was hairy as hell. Her pits, her bush.
Madonna's in Penthouse?
Waiting for DNA tests. He was hairier than Madonna in Penthouse.
Maybe. What about all those hairs they found on his body?
I checked all the zoos. No missing animals. You think a pitbull?
She was never a suspect Lloyd. Some animal must have done this.
Hey, there was a lot of blood.
I told you she was innocent.
Frida's sheets checked out fine. It was just her own blood. From her... you know.
Nah, man, I'm just saying, you should never date a woman who was the last one to see a guy alive.
I can tell she's not a killer. You just don't like her cause you have a hang up about menstruation.
No man. Blood is not a turn on. You sure let that Frida off the hook. You weren't even going to take the sheets. If I didn't know better, I'd think you liked her.
Oh, so you decide to be a cop? Seriously? You don't have sex with a woman cause she's on the rag?
Hell no, I'm not into that shit. The sight of blood makes me sick.
That dude was torn limb from limb. No way a woman like that could have done it. You never seen blood on a chick's sheets from her period?
I didn't trust her. All that blood on the sheets. She may look sweet, but she could be a wolf in sheep's clothing. Something's weird.
Torn apart. Limb from limb. A bloody gruesome mess.
He was found a few blocks away.
Hey, you hear about the chick that came in today? Said some chick bit her at Victoria's Secret. Bitches are outta control these days.
You're some catch Lloyd.
You kiddin'? They try to get ME drunk.
Man, you're livin' dangerously. Let me ask you somethin', you always have to get women drunk before they'll sleep with you?
Nah, I don't wanna break up with Wanda, I just wanna see Carmen too.
Yeah, Im like that. Senility says the wife. But she sure cant complain. Heh. The erector set still works good. And this aint no fucking rug! Ghead. Feel it! All mine!
Mnunn. Cold lately. That night, couple weeks ago. That was <u>real</u> cold. Remember that?
Nope. No maps. Ocean, huh? On vacation?
The city. I need to get to the ocean.
Only two bucks. Shave as well...
Thanks. Just some pills.
Looks like you need a haircut to me.
I need something to keep me awake.
Well, sir... I don't know exactly.
How will we interrogate them?
They don't speak English...
No one available.
Jesus. Small world. Where's the photographer?
The other one?
All the same entry wounds. It's definitely him. She lives... lived here. A prostitute.
I <u>know</u> it's his doctor... I need the file on.. Daniel Paul Schreber M.D.
Says he is the man's doctor... You know...
What's he doing here?
Maybe ten minutes... Thats strange.
How long have you been here?
I'm afraid so.
Was that for real down there?
You wouldn't believe me if I told you, Inspector. Have patience - you'll see for yourself.
What is this place?
Just like that?
I think it's time you introduced us to your little friends.
Please, they'll kill me...
You are mistaken.
That's surprising. He was leaving your office at the time...
I don't know what you're talking about.
I met a friend of yours the other night, doctor. Tall fellow. No hair. Rather pale skin...
To tell you the truth, I'm glad we've run into each other like this. Maybe you can help me tidy some loose ends.
Yes, of course. Everything's fine...
You seem a little edgy. Everything okay?
He's seriously disturbed...
Really? And how is his state of mind?
Just visiting my patient.
Doctor! What brings you here?
Shut up! Everybody stay calm...
He tried to kill me!
Police. Nobody move.
Bumstead, you're starting to annoy me. This case is very important to me. Just a little warning: I've got my eye on you inspector, remember that.
How could you have been so stupid?
Yes, sir. I'm sorry... But I don't understand how it was possible. The only window was twenty feet up a vertical wall, he was cuffed...
Yes. That's right. He's ill - he needs expert help.
What makes you think that! If you would learn to concentrate on facts, not get so side-tracked - you might get things done faster, Bumstead...
Actually, I was wondering, sir, if you could let me have a few uniforms, to follow up for me...
Ill be the judge of that. Anything else?
Its extremely important to my investigation...
A hunch. He might be able to...
Why do you want to speak to him?
Shes getting better, thanks. She...
Thompson suffered a kind of severe delusion or some damn thing. Anyway he isnt with us any longer. The case is yours. Go through his files. Take what you need. By the way, hows your mother?
What about Thompson, sir? Wasnt this his case?
I see. One things for sure, hes ambitious. Youll be a busy man from now on.
Germs, sir. These places are full of them.
Why are you wearing that thing on your face?
Yes. This way.
Good evening, sir.
All the important stuff. Wrap it up for me.
Yes, sir. <u>Everything</u>?
I need everything on the Jonathan White case.
Put it through...
Won't say. Says he must talk to you.
Who is it?
Well be more careful, please.
Do you wash your hands before you type things?
How can I submit this?
<u>Fine</u>? Look here!
It seems fine.
Wrong? Look at this!
Yes, sir. Anything wrong?
You typed this report?
You wont regret this, sir.
Ive taken the liberty and had Inspector Thompsons office searched, as I believe you instructed. All clear now, sir. They found several more traps and things were filed under pretty strange categories... Poor man.
The Chief-Inspector thought you might need a hand.
I didnt requisition a secretary.
Im your new assistant.
Dont ever sneak up on me like that! Who are you?
This ocean business... I know where I can find a map. I need to go back to the station. Where will you be?
It sure isn't the fun-fair.
Where do you think this goes?
Why, that's ridiculous. You just...
Well. The only thing I've been certain of, all this time, is that I need to get to the ocean. The point is no one seems to know how to get there.
That's right. Just seamless flesh across the front of their heads. No mistake. I just hadn't remembered it that way. Up until then they had been normal little girls in my memory. That's not all. Once I started examining them, all sorts of things about my life, had... inconsistencies. It was like a game. I would think about a person or a place, or an event. Then I would turn the lights off. Sit down in a comfortable chair... And study each detail of this subject.
They didn't have faces.
Don't know much, do you?
Don't know that either.
Why are they after you?
I don't know who they are.
People... after me.
I woke up in a subway. I don't know how I got there.
That was a pretty good escape act at the station. How did you do that?
I - ah - couldn't think of anything else to do. I thought maybe you know something... I'm scared.
Why give yourself up?
Where are we going?
A few days... a few weeks - dunno, I can't remember. Worse thing is, I never know if it will change back again... Now, please leave me alone.
But... How long has this been happening?
No... No doctor...
Jesus! We have to get you to a doctor...
What is going on?
Is that your idea of a joke? I don't remember... Take my advice, Bumstead. Get off this case. Now.
What? Who has?
They've taken my mind, my memories...
Not that. Anything else.
I'm on the serial killer case, need to talk.
Can't let you in... sorry.
It must be a closet or something.
Where does it lead?
You see it?
No. Have a look.
Such a joker! Like your father.
There. Behind the cabinet. Where does it go?
What is that door?
Look! This is a good one!
Shut up, freak! Monster! You are insignificant.
I didn't realise...
Wait, this isn't fair...
I see. The verdict, yes...
A book of delusions. Anything else?
Everyone has a job - a function. Each one teaches you more about your invention. I'm what is called a <u>murderer</u>.
A fanciful idea, Mister White.
Dont kill me!
Just let me sit here for a moment? Ill go soon, and stop bothering you.
I see. Then who is after you? What sins have you committed?
No. I mean... that isnt necessary.
Then we must call the police.
Someones after me.
You seem restless.
No. I, ah...
We are... living in their dreams...
What is it?
I'm... being... punished.
What happened to you?
Nothing. I don't know anything!
What are you hiding?
No it isn't. <u>You</u> are doing it! Now raise it over the glass and...
It's a trick.
Don't ask stupid questions. Look at it.
Please! Don't be foolish! Time is short. Let me show you something. Look at this syringe.
You've been working too hard.
Everyone get's one - very much like this... But this one's special. It will help you understand, everything...
Not that again...
If you would only take this, inject it in your brain, everything would be much clearer.
So you're telling me the truth <u>this</u> time? Is that it!
No, it's the truth.
You're a liar!
You can't go yet. We've got so much to talk about...
I have to go...
What are you doing?
I don't blame you for getting angry. You are in a frustrating situation. You must be patient though. Trust me completely. I'm here to help.
I'm sorry. About before.
Can I get my life back?
Anything <u>but</u>, my friend.
I'm nothing then.
We are little more than a sum of memories. From them we reference who we are, where we're going. Without a past we are nothing. This is why you are so interesting.
You remember nothing, eh? Let me show you something.
Not exactly. She was found in a canal, disembowelled. Throat cut. Blood drained. The body wrapped in a bed-sheet.
Did she drown? The woman you told me about?
I told you, I can't remember a thing!
I cannot say... You don't know the answer to that?
Known me for long?
That's right. I <u>am</u> your doctor.
You're supposed to be my doctor, right?
If you like.
Tell me about them...
That's what people keep telling me.
Your name is John White.
Asks my name. Over and over. Just like a broken record. Only thing is, I can't answer. I've no idea what my name <u>is</u>.
What does she say? The woman.
Waves... A beach. A woman whispering. That's all. I need to stay awake. Do you have any pills?
You think I haven't been trying! It's like there was never anything there. Just water.
Ah, that would be cheating, wouldn't it? Is there nothing <u>you</u> remember? Not even a detail? You must try.
You know something about me?
You remember nothing? Who you are? What you've done?
That's easy. You...
How do I get there? Tell me.
They're dead, John.
I can't do that. It's dangerous. What about my parents? Do you know where I can find them?
Of course you are. You couldn't do those terrible things. Come home with me - maybe things will make sense then...
How do you know I'm innocent?
It's the truth... I need you. I know you're innocent.
I thought it would make more sense. I'm getting the pieces, but when I put it together it feels like... Like you're telling me about somebody else's life...
I'm the President and as they say 'The buck stops here.' So I take full responsibility for every one of my illegal acts.
Die, you pond scum!
Oh... I'm fired?
I said you're fired. Go on -- get outta here.
Well, maybe I am. But you're fired.
You're lint! You're a flea! You're a blip!
I'm... not... nobody...
You're nothing. Do you understand me! You're NOBODY...
You mean the press conference? I have a couple of ideas I wanted to share with the country.
What do you think you're doing?!
Yes, Bob. Choices... Now the Commerce Department..,
Well it's a last minute change.
Uh, Mr. President... I don't believe that's on your agenda today.
) Listen, you little...
Lots of shelters were in this bill.
That shelter was in this bill.
The Washington Post.
What the hell is this ?
What the hell is this?
I mean, if it's a problem...
`Thanks for doing this, Ellen.'
Now when she comes in, we'll move you right out to the balcony. All you have to say is `thanks for doing this, Ellen.'
Be a professional. If you can convince her - - you can convince anybody.
It's in the little leaguer who may strike out but knows in his heart that at least swung... Hands to the side...
Oh, sure. Remember the convention speech?
I'm not certain about...
First thing we're gonna work on is the mannerisms. Alan has put together sort of a training program
I promise. I won't.
Right and don't embellish.
For a month.
And we're going away for a holiday.
Okay, let's go over it again. You met a girl, you fell in love...
Don't worry about it.
What's with her?
Now, remember -- keep it simple.
We'll be back for you first thing tomorrow and if you need me for anything, Duane will be right outside the door.
It happens. This is where you'll be sleeping.
They barely talk anymore.
Don't worry. You won't even see her.
Uh -- I don't know. Sometimes it's just like a barter thing... Is this legal?
How much do you usually get paid?
No more than the usual.
Is this dangerous or anything?
Uh --Mr. Alexander?
Don't say a .
`Cause you know I can do other stuff. I mean, if you wanted me to talk or...
Wave from the door... go down the stairs... get into the limo...
Yeah... You just want me to wave, right?
You understand what you'll be doing?
... But as I began to investigate, I realized that this pattern of corruption extended much higher...
Sort of... Yeah.
Are you threatening me?
Just what you think I mean.
What do you mean by that?
Then we'll all go to jail together.
I'll lock him away for good.
Don't do this.
Was he a senator? Is he on the Trilateral Commission? Was he in Who's Who In Washington NINE YEARS Reed wrestles him away from the door, as Bob struggles to get free. I'll destroy him, Alan. I'll shred the bastard!!!
It's not his job -- It's my job!
He was only doing his job.
Well, I didn't mean it, Alan. Why the fuck would I want to save a homeless shelter?
I heard you. You said 'cut three hundred million dollars from the federal budget, and you can keep your homeless shelter.'
What I told him to?
He's only doing what you told him to.
I can kill a HUNDRED ordinary people.
He's not a President! He's an ordinary person. I can kill an ordinary person.
You can't kill a President.
I'm going to kill him.
What are you gonna do?
I don't think so.
Do we have anything on the budget today?
Hundredth cabinet meeting. I thought it was a nice touch.
What's with the cameras?
Dave, these things get awfully complicated sometimes...
No!... WE didn't anything...
I'm telling you, Bob, it's a gift. When you got a Ferrari you don't leave it in the garage.
How long have you been waiting to pass that thing?
And look at this. Russell came around on the trade bill.
Alan, we still have to control this guy...
Couple of days. Anyhow, look at these tracking polls, they'll burn up in your hands: seventy- three percent with seniors, eighty- four with working mothers...
When does it break?
Remember that First Liberty stuff we almost got nailed on?
I don't want him caring about his wife! What about the Vice President!
It's gonna be great. 'Caring about his wife.' 'Spending time on her favorite issue...'
Oh. Excuse me.
It's a homeless shelter.
You scheduled a whole day with the First Lady?
Uh, let me get back to you...
Are you out of your mind?
Okay, let's see... you can have him on Tuesday the 25th...
You think we can keep this thing going for a couple of months!
If we find nothing, we get creative. Just make something up. Instead of a couple weeks it'll be a couple of months. The whole thing is under control.
We've got nothing, Bob. This won't work.
Nobody's got clean kids.
Check his kids.
What about the wife?
The guy's a Boy Scout, Bob. He declared frequent flyer miles on his income tax return.
No one gets to be Vice President by being that clean.
I mean I've checked everything. Women. Liquor... Finances. I went all the way back to his high school race for student body president.
What do you mean, he's clean?
I just hope this yutz can pull it off.
Everybody else is buying the minor stroke' story...
I told her his blood pressure went up after a little incident at `the hotel.' She seems to hate him more than ever.
Her?... Oh -- the First Lady... She was giving that commencement speech up in Bryn Mawr. I managed to catch her before she left the hotel.
What about her.
Duane's guys, but he's got them under control.
Is that everybody?
I got the nurses for fifty grand a piece and the doctors for a hundred. The older one wanted head of the CDC.
What about containment, Alan?
Oh, I know. And then when our poor President gets another stroke - - of course much more serious this time - - the newly appointed V.P. becomes the Pres...
I was a senator, you know.
You mean we get `Dave' to nominate you as Vice President.
It's simple, Alan. We send the Vice- President to Africa or something, dig up some dirt on him, force him to resign and get our `President' to nominate a new one. The whole thing takes a few weeks tops.
Do you know how many different kinds of laws we've broken?
We think so.
Exactly. A condition.
Up and around? Soon?
Yes - - and that he ought to be up and around sometime soon.
Well, start by going on television and saying that he's had a mild stroke...
Look, everything can be handled. We'll just find a way to handle it.
Bob, the guy had a stroke!
TilT we figure something out.
This is mine, Al -- all mine ... I made him. I built him. And no cocksucker is gonna come in here and take it away from me just because he to be Vice President of the United States!
I don't give a shit.
The guy's in a coma, Bob.
Just don't call him, Alan!
Don't call the Vice President!
Look... at some point we're going to have to call the Vice President...
She's a little hysterical right now. We've got her upstairs in a laundry room.
Where's the girl?
I can't believe he'd do this.
They say it hit both sides of his brain... Even if he makes it he's gonna be a vegetable.
Well -- take care.
That'd be great.
Thanks. You did great. Maybe later you could come back and we could go to Camp David or something.
It's alright. I know what you mean. Let's start at the top.
Well, there's lots of places where I think you can save, but I'm not the one who's ....... I mean, I'm not the one who's not the Pres...
So what do we do?
Yeah. That's how you end up with a 400 billion dollar deficit.
You could buy it on payments.
You know -- priorities. Remember when you couldn't get your car fixed `cause you wanted to get that piano?
Well, yeah. But you gotta start making some choices.
I'm not surprised. Can we save anywhere?
I just think they make this stuff a lot more complicated than it has to be.
I'm not sure.
I gotta tell ya, Dave. I've been going over this a bunch of times and a lot of this stuff just doesn't add up. Who does these books?
I'm not sure.
I gotta tell ya, Dave. I've been going over this a bunch of times and a lot of this stuff just doesn't add up. Who does these books?
I am the government.
And who's gonna find out?
This is undeclared income.
I don't think so
Why would they do that. They hired me.
They could put you in jail.
I'm serious, Dave -- you could get in a lot of trouble for something like this.
Oh. Okay. I'll catch ya tomorrow then.
I was gonna do something with Joan.
Oh yeah... Me, too. You want to get dinner later?
Dave -- I'm working.
So you want to go swimming?
Now he's making stuff up about me.
Absolutely. Well, that might be kind of tough. Once the press starts smelling blood...
We've got to fix this.
Oh, I know, I know... It looks awfully bad. It's really embarrassing. But it was Bob's idea.
This is wrong, Alan!
We had to, Dave. The guy's a choir boy.
What do you mean you made it all up?
Right. We can pick up on the rest tomorrow.
Let's call it a night. I can't take any more.
But we went there. We saw those kids.
Dave, the budget's a very complicated thing. Even I don't understand it sometimes. Now occasionally we have to make some cuts and...
We vetoed that?
President vetoes works bill?
Quick. Gimme a quarter.
Gimme a quarter.
She hardly ever sees him and it'll be so fast, she won't have a chance to tell.
Yeah, but the First Lady... Couldn't we start with a cousin or something?
It's just five minutes. She comes in. You wave to the press. She leaves.
I thought you said I wasn't going to see her.
'... It's in the gentle kindness of the family kitchen as we gather together when the sun goes down...'
'America isn't in what we say here tonight -- it's in the faces and the smiles of a Sunday afternoon...' Hand on the heart...
... Somewhere there is a distant light, guiding us through this rocky shoal...'
Thanks, I wrote it.
That's at a press conference. Otherwise he just puts `em right out there.
At a press conference.
Right. Now whenever he stands at a Podium, the President always puts one hand in the pocket of his coat...
I don't think so.
The teleprompter. Is it hooked up?
Now some of this may feel a bit Strange at first. You gotta remember that even a professional Politician has Some trouble getting used to...
I see what you mean.
In the car.
In the car?
Now, let's say the whole country. Was in that car. The entire United States of America.
Well... I gues I would... Yeah.
Well, let's say your mother was in the car and you had to get her to a hospital. You'd do it then for sure wouldn't you?
I'm not sure... I might have.
You know, on an empty road where you know it's safe and nobody's around...
I'm afraid so.
Oh, yeah... probably...
Will he be alright?
Oh my gosh...
It's actually kind of serious, Dave. I'm afraid the President's not in very good shape.
Well, it's... It's sort of an... an `incident' really...
I know... I know... It's difficult for all of us. But sometimes we have to put our personal feelings aside and focus on the gQod of the country.
Oh my God...
Extend them. C'mere for a second.
In fact, we think you did such a good job, we'd like to extend things a little bit.
We're not upset with you, Dave. We think you did a terrific job. Don't we?
Look, I'm sorry. I know you said not to talk, but when I saw the crowd I just got excited...
Now, Dave, something has come up and I think we need to talk about it...
Oh yeah... 1'm fine...
You sure? A Coke or a Perrier or something?
Well I'm sure that's really important, but I don't want to tell some eight- year-old kid he has to sleep in the street because we want people to feel better about their cars. Do you want to tell him that?
Yes, but I wouldn't...
So we're spending forty-seven million dollars to make people feel better about a car they've already bought?
Well... to shore up product identification and preserve market share.
Yes, it's designed to bolster individual confidence in a previous domestic automotive purchase.
No, sir. It's more of a perceptual issue.
Does it make the cars any better?
And it's proving quite effective...
You're spending forty-three million dollars on an ad campaign to... 'Boost consumer confidence in the American auto industry.'
Yes, Mr. President?
Oh... Kinda the same way.
How'd you get started?
My wife was my campaign manager. We had a two thousand dollar budget.
One day my wife says to me 'Why don't you try running for office. You talk about it all the time, why don't you just do it?' So I tell my boss I have a dentist appointment and I go down to the registrar of voters on my lunch break. Next thing I know, I'm a councilman.
You know. Your first campaign.
You ever think back to how you started.
Yeah... Sometimes they do.
... Sometimes they do.
He's not gonna win -- not in the end... They never do.
Dirty business we're in sometimes.
I just fired Bob Alexander.
What do you mean?
They re not my attack dogs.
All I've got is my integrity. That's all I have. Now I don't know why you turned your attack dogs on me.
The Fidelity nonsense...
Oh, come on, we're not children. I didn't have anything to do with this Fidelity nonsense and you know it.
Something like what...
Mr. President, may I speak frankly with you?
What are they?
And these are a gift from the King of To go.
This is from the people of Burundi...
I would have taken a bullet for I you, Dave.
No thanks. It's not that far.
You sure you don't want a lift back home?
Oh... right... You know, ever since the stroke...
Oh, sure. Don't worry about it.
That's okay. You alright down here by yourself?
Didn't mean to bum you out.
Yeah, but Bob found me when I was stuck in Firearms and Tobacco...
But Bill was your king, not Bob.
No... They don't kid.
First thing they teach you at the academy. `Don't give me gold and silver, or other worldly things, just the pride and glory of bleeding for my King.'
`Bleed for your king.'
You mean with you and everything?
I had a feeling.
I was waiting for that jack.
But it's ten-thirty at night.
Call Bob and Reed. Tell them I need them immediately.
Well, is that really true? I mean, would you really get killed just to save his life.
What about it?
Huh. You know what I always wondered the way they say you guys'd take a bullet for the President.
You ever use it?
You got a gun?
So you just protect the President the whole time? That's your whole job?
I can't say.
You mean you don't know or like -- you can't say.
I can't say.
So, how long have they been like that - - you know, him and the First Lady?
We'd like to hire you.
On occasion for security purposes, to double for the President at the Secret Service hires someone public functions and exposed situations.
Your government needs your help.
Mr. Kovic. We're not here about your taxes.
Oh my God... I thought it was a legitimate deduction, I swear to God. See... I need a piano for my work sometimes...
Yeah... It could be fun.
It could be fun.
Oh... I lived with a President. It isn't any fun.
... Not exactly the Oval Office.
So this is it?
... Me, too.
I never thought I'd...
Yeah, well... It's finally over.
I saw you on T.V... at his funeral.
) Thought I needed a little change. You like it?
Yeah. He's a good man.
I sure fall for some weird guys.
Yeah. And it's better than not believing it Their faces are inches apart.
You really believe that?
Yeah, but we got a little bit done. And if you do a little and I do a little... then maybe the next guy'll do a little...
They're crucifying you out there.
Looks like we're not going to get a chance to get much done.
I mean, I want to... I just, I feel strange...
I know. I'm sorry...
Well I guess...
It was inspirational.
It was okay?
But you could go to jail for it.
You know, Dave -- it is Dave, isn't it? I can't keep all of this a secret.
Well don't get carried away -- I'm not that good at it.
It's just more than anybody else does around here.
Yeah. Is that funny?
You find people jobs?
You know, secretaries and stiff.
I run a temp agency.
You mean when I'm not running the country?
So what do you do the rest of the time?
You have a lot of secrets.
That's a secret.
I really don't have much of an appetite.
I'm starving. There's got to be something open around here.
Are you hungry?
He wasn't always like that, anyway.
In fact, I'm not anything like him and... I guess I want you to know that.
I'm not Bill Mitchell.
I lock at you and I see Bill... I mean, he's almost dead, but he's right here... I mean, you're right here... alive and...
It's just so strange...
He said he'll pick it up in a couple of days.
I don't mind.
You don't have to keep walking with me. I'm okay from here.
Truman used it all the time.
You sure this goes somewhere?
I don't know. I hadn't thought it out that far.
How were you gonna get home?
I never wanted to hurt anybody. In fact... I even thought I was helping.
You1re leaving, too?
Just souvenirs. Towels and stuff.
Oh, they didn't brief you on that? How sloppy of them.
Where are you going?
I'm not the First Lady, anymore. I shouldn't be here.
I'm sure they did. 'State of Emergency.' 'National Security.' You ever hear of the Constitution?
They asked me to help.
When were you all planning to tell me? A year from now? After the election... What's going on here? Dave hesitates.
I don't know.
I mean, what is it? Another Secretary? A jaunt to the Bahamas with Some 'campaign worker.' Where is he?
You weren't in the state legislature.
Oh yeah? Me, too.
Kind of reminds me of that thing you did back in the state legislature.
Oh, I don't think so. Still, you helped a lot of people.
Anybody would have done it.
That was quite a thing you did today.
Mind if I sit down?
I saw the light. I thought maybe you were up.
... . Ellen.
There's no mistake, Bill. If you veto their funding, it's not a mistake. If you hurt someone intentionally, it's not a mistake.
Look. If there was some mistake...
You made their funding disappear!
What's wrong with a magic trick?
That's not just a works bill you vetoed -- that would have given these kids homes... ... When I think about that little spectacle you pulled with those muppets and that magic trick...
I don't understand.
... You know, if you want to be the same old bastard, that's fine. I can handle it. But don't pull this 'man of the people' bullshit and then do something like this.
Oh, come on, Bill. Don't patronize me. I'm not one of your little... Turn around. I'm talking to you!... Turnaround!
... How could I what?
Yeah. I'm sure it's keeping you up nights.
I care about the homeless.
Since when do you care about the homeless?
You don't change, do you, Bill?
Thanks for doing this, Ellen?
Don't you have anything to say to me?
I'm outta here.
Go tuck yourself, Bill.
Thanks for doing this, Ellen.
What are you staring at?
Oh yeah. Did you take care of later on?
Father Mclntire. He blessed you at the inauguration.
Who's this priest I'm thanking?
It better be. Last time you had me introduce a dead guy.
It'll be on the teleprompter with the rest of the speech.
What about the intro?
We're all set, sir.
We're doing our best, sir.
Try to find someone who looks like me this time. That last guy was a joke.
We're working on it.
Did you get someone to double for me there, out front?
Uh, yes, sir. The Monroe Hotel...
Dammit... I told them no mayo. See - - I could veto this Simpson Garner thing, but I really don't want to do that...
I wish I had better news... Our compassion index is off seven points from the last sample and that's down eighteen on the year. The `Cares About People Like Me' numbers are really in the toilet. We're off twenty points from March and that was right after we raised interest rates...
Nooooo. Believe me. There are no others...no rebels...nobody...it's over...it's ooooo....
How did you know we were on this island? Do others know? Will others come?
To look...look for a place...a place to live in...an empty place...a... new...place...
Then why did you come here?
There are no...headquarters. There are no...rebels. Only the walking dead. Don't you see. They have won.
Where are your headquarters, rebel? Tell me or I'll let you hang there forever...FOREVER!
The mainland...is dead...a dead place...nobody there...
I don't believe you, rebel. Where are your headquarters? On the mainland?
Two of us...only two of us...me...and him.
I'll bargain with you. How many of you are on the island?
NO...NOOOOOOO...SHOOT ME! SHOOT ME! SHOOOOOOOOOT MEEEEEEEEE!!!
After hanging up there a few days you will be mad for food...crazed! You will lust for it! YOU WILL BE WORSE THAN ANY OF THEM!
And if I don't? If I don't you'll come back after your death. You'll come back and find yourself hanging there...wanting to eat...needing to eat human flesh. You hate that thought, don't you? That's the ultimate sin for most of you fools, isn't it?
Maybe. We'll have a little talk first. Then....maybe...I can help you out. String him up.
Please...senor...destroy me...one bullet...please.
It can't be. Are we truly in hell?
Let's just....wait a minute. Get a better look.
What do we do? Let'em know we're here....or what?
It's some kind of....elevator. There must be something under the ground here....maybe....military.
I dunno. Landing pad for a helicopter? I dunno.
What is it?
No. I didn't stop the infection in time. I know. Don't worry. When he dies, I won't be like Maria. I'll shoot him.
His madness....could be from shock.
Help me get him to the boat.
Hmmmmmm? Oh, yes. Go on.
You'd hold us back. We have to go on.
Oh, yes. Quiet. Yes. We must be quiet.
I know it hurts. But it won't be long. Then all the pain will be over. Oh, I wish you could hear me. GOD, GIVE HER THE EARS TO HEAR ME SO SHE KNOWS I DON'T WANT HER TO HURT SO!
I have looked bad for four years. Everyone in the world has looked bad for four years. Thank God looks don't matter as much as they once did.
Are you alright, Doc? You look... you look real bad.
What is it?
You'll find the ways, Miss Mary. And when ya do...we'll sail on over to the mainland...or any other damn mainland fer that matter...and start us a recruitin' program. There's millions o' Bees out there jus' waitin' fer' a General ta lead 'em on ta vict'ry!
It's not a very big army. And small as it is you won't be able to continue feeding it for very long. We've got to find ways of getting them to respond without relying on...
There's no place like this place. Warm climate. This facility. Christ, there ain't nothin' like this no-damn-where! Even the Feds knew that. That's why they stored so much o' their shit down here. It's all mine now. All mine. Just let 'em try ta come after us down here, which they will some day...take a likin' ta what all we got an' come after us. They'll hafta get past my army! An army that ain't afraid ta die...ha ha ha...'cause it's awreddy DAID! HA HA HA HA....
We think there are other cities surviving. We think maybe Detroit... there's some signalling out of Philly.
The great state of Florida. People came here fer years ta die. Retire and expire. The rest o' the country used ta think we was nothin' but a bunch o' farts and fogies. Hah! Now this here's the new Capital o' the World! Hah! They came here...died...went to hell...and the Devil sent 'em back as an army. Hah! General Gasparilla's army...MY ARMY!
That's right. 'Bout eight, if that suits. We'll start out in my gymnasium an' progress on from there...to various other forms o' physical therapy.
gonna change, young lady. Now if you still got a statement you'd like ta make, you can jus' hold onto it 'til tonight.
Listen, Missy. I am the only due process that has ta be served aroun' tyere and one of the people doin' the servin' from now on is gonna be you. Now you been prancin' aroun' the Cave like yer ass was glass fer long enough! All that's
I'm sorry, General, if I...spoke out of turn. It's just that...Mr Tyler is not here to defend himself. He has no representation. I don't believe due process is being served by...
Now I think Captain's punishment is fair, considerin'. In fact I think you ain't got shit ta complain about.
SIDDOWN, YOUNG LADY! I DONE YUP A SHIT-LOAD O' FAVOURS AND I AIN'T NEVER YET ASKED FER NOTHIN' IN RETURN! NOW HOW'D YOU LIKE TA SPEND TWO WEEKS UP T'THE VEGETABLE FARM YERSELF? THAT'S WHAT IT'LL BE IF YA DON'T SIDDOWN AN' SHUT THE HELL UP!
THIS IS A TRAVESTY! CAPTAIN RHODES IS...
SHUT UP, MISS HENRIED! I TOL' YA B'FORE!
Sir. It's quite clear that...
MISS HENRIED, SHUT THE HELL UP!!!
...Captain Rhodes is trying to...
Miss Henried, I think you better...
Well, you managed ta make it here jus' in time fer this case, didn't ya?
I'm sorry. I was...busy. In the lab.
Well, Miss Henried, what a coincidence. You're just in time fer a case that seems ta concern you. Guess you didn't care about the other proceedin's we been dealin' with here this mornin'.
Forever, darlin'. Forever. 'Til he turns ta dust and blows away on the wind.
How long do we have to watch him?
It's...he was...one who came to the island with me.
What is it?
We're only about a quarter-mile from Cave entrance number five.
Looks like just two. We can take 'em when the time comes.
There's hundreds of 'em. Right where we landed our boat.
We always planned to use it. We got some ground up already...but we could never find enough.
Datura! Miguel knew it! Datura, he was shouting! Datura Metel!
Datura Metel. The Devil's Trumpet. Don't worry. I ain't goin' religioso again. It's a flower that grows on these islands. Where I come from the voodoo priests used it whenever they needed a Mickey Finn. It's toxic. Ground up you can put it in a drink or inject it...or...in a sealed area it might be introduced through the ventilation system.
Toby's right. They're not gonna sit around with their fingers up their asses while we bust up their toys.
He's just finding another reason for bumpin' us off. Don't ya see. He needs us ta die. He needs our bodies.
Let me go! I'm the one he wants. This is all happening because of me. If I turn myself in...
You disappear in here, darlin'. You get a knife in yer belly or too much shit in yer veins. You get lost out here and nobody's gonna notice. Rhodes, he counts on that. It all makes for food in the freezers.
They seem to be havin' a good time. Some punishment.
No. They just try to hold you for ransom. Fuck you, Moses! I'm outa here!
Farther than you think. You'll get lost. You will. And there's Bees all through the jungle. I ain't lyin' to ya. Religiosos don't lie.
I can find it myself. I didn't come that far.
You think you can find your boat? There's a thousand little inlets and backwaters all through here. You remember all the ways you turned to get where you are now? You leave yourself a trail?
Look. I BEEN fightin', mister. I been fightin' for what feels like a hundred years and I'm finished. I don't need religion. I don't need prayers. I need a couple guns and a couple hands. We can sail on outa here. Find another island where there ain't so much....traffic.
That's why we didn't use prayers on this here white coat 'til after he was destroyed. We ready to fight when we have to. And we gotta fight now.
Oh, what did I run into? A bunch o' Jesus nuts? Religiosos? Prayer won't stop a bullet from one of those storm troopers and prayer won't keep one of those monsters from eatin' your liver for lunch.
I'm sure that's true, miss. And that's why we're doin' what we're doin'. What's happenin' underground here is just what Lucifer planned for this sinful race o' man. But we're gonna beat Lucifer. We're gonna put an end to what's happenin' here.
We thought we were escaping here. We thought we'd found an uninhabited island. Christ! This place is a worse nightmare than anything I've seen yet!
That sounds like a curse to me.
It's a disease. It's a...a bug...a parasite that infects the brain.
What is it if it ain't a curse?
How we gonna break the curse without a prayer or two.
The man I was with...until today... believed that praying was for blind men who couldn't see the truth.
I know you can. Like I said, we been watchin' you.
Thanks. I can fight my own battles.
Captain Rhodes and his Red Coat Bees. They could sting, sister. We know you came up against 'em. We been watchin' you since you landed. Couldn't help. I'm sorry for that. We ain't supposed to be outside. If we was spotted it could....well, it could be the end of everything.
We ran up against a platoon of soldiers. There were actually walking dead...in uniform...with guns.
That's the man. He's been holed up here ever since the shit hit the fan. Him and his family owned these islands 'round here. They was leasin' this one to the Fed. The whole underneath is dug out. There was missiles here and laboratories and bomb proof housing, nuclear power, all o' that. Now this is Dickerson's....Gasparilla's... private fortress. Him and a bunch o' his cronies from all the best golf courses in Tallahassee...and his private army, of course.
Governor Dickerson? Of Florida?
He was a pirate who sailed these waters long ago. His name is bein' borrowed these days by the long lost Henry Dickerson.
Bees. That's what we call the dead... the walking dead...here on Gasparilla's island.
What you wanna do?
That's the general alarm. Jesus! They musta got in!
Come on. Let's go.
That entrance is closest to the labs and the Bee cages.
I say it's poetic. Pure calypso, brother. The Devil's Trumpet blowin' the notes o' doom for the Devil's troops. Ha ha ha ha ha...
If you could knock out the central communications room you could foul up their whole intercom system. Then, if you move fast enough, stay ahead of 'em...without bein' able to signal each other, they might have a hard time catchin' you.
Quicker than gas. And it smells a lot prettier. It usually don't kill but it puts ya under fer a good night's sleep.
This stuff really works? No shit?
A direct hit'll blow the top off this whole island! How're you gonna fuse the stuff? How're you gonna leave yourself time to get out?
We know what's down there. We did the loading' and unloadin' when the stuff came ashore in the early days. A direct hit oughta do more than a few weeks worth o' damage.
We're gonna blow up the powder magazine.
Oh, no. I'm tryin' to get off this island alive. I'll help you all I can but I'm not goin' in there on a suicide mission. What can you hope to accomplish? Some radios maybe? A supply room or two? You'll all be killed and in a few weeks they'll be back to business as usual. That place was built to withstand nuclear attack! What are you gonna do with a half-dozen guns and a few sticks of nitro?
We're hopin' you can show us where ta go, Toby.
It won't work. That's pure nitro you're dealin' with there. That stuff can blow if you look at is funny. What're you gonna do, walk into the Cave carryin' those tubes on feather pillows? You don't have a complete layout of the place. Even if you manage to avoid a fight you won't know where to go.
I got some fuel comin' out and, I hope, some automatic rifles.
I say we got a boat. Can you get other stuff?
We got a boat.
There ya go. Complete with air canisters...little motors.
He's my contact for Chrissake! There's two crates. Can you get me into the hospital?
What'dya tell that soldier, soldier? You tell him we was rebels?
Yeah. My stuff's all marked with red crosses so nobody gets too nosey. Meet me at the hospital after the supplies come in. Maybe we can find a place there to talk.
I'm gonna have this stuff sent over to the hospital...
Look...I know you have no reason to trust me. I've got friends in the Cave. I got some stuff comin' out this mornin'. I'm gonna try to get off the island.
Ain't no place safe.
It's alright. I'm a friend. I need help and so do you. What's a safe place to talk?
The purpose of decapitation is to preserve as much...food...as possible. The purpose for feeding is to keep the beasts on our side. The fact that they can be taught to clean up our garbage or to fire a gun is a convenient side benefit, not the primary goal. The primary goal is to keep ourselves from becoming their supper. Keep them fed and they behave. Keep them hungry and they revert back to being the animals that they have always been. You saw them in there.
I thought the purpose of decapitation was to...to...
They are brutes without feeling. Though I admit that I've requested cremation for myself. Burial is an archaic tradition, even more ridiculous now than it ever was. To say nothing of the...spacing problem...on a small island like this.
But...we bury the heads. Oh. God! It must be torture for them!
Any dead whose brains are intact will revive.
I didn't realise! Those were de-caps! I didn't know that....de-caps... revived!
No. You won't be able to do it. He will rise. He will rise and you... you will die.
You can believe this, Miguel. I'll kill you if you shoot. We must wait. I'll....I'll do it....I'll do it myself....when it needs to be done.
One day a dead man will refuse to return, and that man will be a saint. The first saint of our century. That's a prayer, too. A catechism. Something the priests tell us to believe.
We must wait. One day the curse will pass. One day a dead man will... will...
Prayers have no power to save. The knife can save. It can cut the disease away. The bullet. It can shatter the brain where the evil takes seed. These are saviours...our new saviours...our only saviours.
No. The disease was cut away from me. I will live. I will live.
You are dying, too.
He is dying. He knows it.
...but most of all because...they offend Thee, my God...Who art all good...and deserving...deserving of all my love...
I detest all my sins...because... because of Thy just punishment... because of Thy...just...punish...
Shhhhh....Tony. Rest, rest.
Aaaaaaah...my God...my God...I am heartily sorry...for having offended Thee....offended Thee...
PULL IN! GET THE OTHERS.
I tol' him. I tol' him this is a dead place. Like all the others.
Sir, Tyler is innocent of any crime against the State. Captain Rhodes is...
Sir. In the matter of the State versus Private Tyler, I don't want to...
No, Miss Science. You're the one who needs to do some thinking.
You better not mess with me, Rhodes. I'd love to serve your balls to those Red Coats for lunch! Think about it!
I had an unfortunate little run-in with him today. In fact...you might say that Mr. Tyler is in big trouble with the...authorities.
Rhodes, you and I had a roll in the hay together when I first got here. It was a wholly unsatisfying experience which I do not want to, and which I never will repeat! So give up, mister! I'm going home...to that roommate you mentioned.
Ah, yes, our noble Gasparilla does seem to favour you lately. I understand he assigned you a roommate of your choice. The rest of us have to pick names out of a hat.
If you put her on the shit list because of her reaction here tonight I'll go to Dickerson.
Oh, I have no doubt.
Julie Grant is a behaviouralist. She's not medical. She hasn't been as...exposed to...to things...as some of the rest of us. She'll be alright. I'll talk to her. She'll be alright.
And you're the one who builds the bomb and they says, 'I hope it'll never actually be used'.
You're....you're disgusting! You're....FILTH!
Leave me alone, you...COCKSUCKER!!!
You can't run away from the planet, Miss Science. You can't even run away from the island, heh heh.
They will never be satisfied with anything else, Miss Henried. They want human flesh. I'm prepared to take whatever steps are necessary to see to it they don't get mine! Not while I'm still using it!
You gave them a fresh taste of blood!
No wonder they're so....hungry.
You have ruined weeks of work here! We've been trying to wean these specimens onto alligator meat!
God has damned us all. Are my atrocities worse than yours?
God....damn you, Rhodes!
Come, come, Miss Science. You've seen worse.
I'll have somebody's ass for this. I'll have your ass, soldier. I'm not gonna stand here and...
For the good of mankind. That's what every monster-maker says.
I can work here. Maybe my work can help...help everyone. I can do more good with access to this equipment than I can off in some wasteland.
Need what? Civilised order like we have down here? Christ!
I am not...a guerilla fighter, Toby. I'm not a pioneer. I'm not...I'm not strong that way. I need...
We're both gonna leave. Leave the island. I've been talkin' to Tricks. We think we can smuggle out one of those inflatable rafts. They're crated up real small. They've got air canisters. There's food inside. Even a little motor.
I want you to leave. Then maybe...
Oh, bullshit, Mary. It's because Rhodes is a prick.
It's because of me.
That bastard. I didn't think he'd make his move so fast.
Some of Rhodes' men. At the door.
Hey. Slow down. What is it?
Toby...thank God...wait here. I gotta find out what's goin' on.
In the battle, sir.
It's been fired.
Let me see your weapon.
You fired that shot, didn't you?
Step up here, Tyler.
I said, I'll take care of them. Just leave them there. Go help with the rest of the gear.
Just....following procedure, sir. They're entitled to burial.
No time for that. I'll take care of them.
My..."detail", sir. We're going to bury the heads.
Where are you going, Tyler?
I'm alright. Let's go.
We need fuel, and a couple automatics.
Rafts. Two 38s. A little ammo.
Not as bad as yours, pal.
Hey, Tricks. Some detail they got you on.
Well, I'd better find Patsy. Say hello to Mutt for me.
To fucking Mutt.
Actually I don't really know Mutt.
So what the hell's Mutt been up to?
Actually I don't
Say Steve, where's your manners? Here's Mutt's brother and you don't offer him a drink? Want some bourbon?
No relation. Never heard of him. Sorry.
Hell no, I'm not afraid of them just, if we get caught with them, we're dead.
Cameron, what is the matter with you. You act like they're your mother or something. You afraid of them?
I don't think they're in school.
Do they go to Henley Hall?
I'm in as long as we're careful.
Well, no shit, Sherlock
All I'm saying is we have to be careful. We can't get caught.
So don't goddam come! Please.
You know how many demerits we're talking?
Sounds boring to me.
I'll tell you later.
What do you mean you don't know?
How'd it go? Did you read it to her?
The point is she was thinking about me! I've only met her once and already she's thinking about me. Damn it, it's gonna happen! I feel it. She's going to be mine!
What is the point?
Well hell no, Charlie, but that's not the point. That's not the point at all!
So you really think she means you're going with her?
At Chet Danburry's house.
Can you believe it? She was gonna call me! She invited me to a party with her!
No, I've been calm all my life! If I don't do something, it's gonna kill me.
Knox, you gotta calm down.
God, I can't take it anymore! If I don't have Chris, I'll kill myself.
Meeks, you're the brain here. What do the dead poets say about somebody like me?
Needs Chris! Must have Chris!
I feel like I've never been alive. For years I've been risking nothing. I have no idea what I am or what I want to do! Neil, you know you want to act. Knox wants Chris.
Hey, this is great.
The millions are awake enough for Physical labor; but only one in a million is awake enough for effective intellectual exertion, only one in a hundred millions to a poetic or divine life. To be awake is to be alive.
It will? How do you figure?
Come on. It'll help you get Chris.
I don't know. I don't get it.
What is the Dead Poets Society?
Thigh man? Mr. "K" was a hell raiser.
Terrible. Awful! I met the most beautiful girl I've ever seen in my life!
How was dinner?
Yeah! Tell him off! It couldn't get any worse.
Why doesn't he let you do what you want?
Hey guys, why don't you show Tina the Dead Poets garden?
This is it.
Ahh! Eat it, Dalton!
Yaa, I'm a dead poet!
All right. I'll try anything once.
How about a trig study group? Right after dinner.
Oh come on, Cameron, don't you get anything?
And English, and trig
He flatters me so I'll help him with Latin.
It's every bit as hard as they say. Unless you're a genius like Meeks.
Well, welcome to "Hell"ton.
So much the better.
But what if they see it, Nuwanda?
I couldn't stop myself.
Damn it, Nuwanda. You idiot.
It's Nuwanda, Cameron.
Don't you think they'll figure out who did it?! Don't you know they'll come to you and demand to know what the Dead Poets Society is? Charlie, you had no right to do something like that!
Why? Nobody knows who we are.
Oh God, it's over now!
I thought I'd be spontaneous. I mean, that's the point of this whole thing, isn't it?
Well, of course not. It's just that... You could have warned us.
It should, but I found it and now I claim it. carpe cavern, guys. Seize the cave.
Wait a minute, Charlie. This should belong to the club.
I hereby declare this the Charles Dalton Cave for Passionate Experimentation. In the future, anyone wishing entry must have permission from me.
Oh come on, Pitts...
I'm sorry. I, we
Anything else you'd care to rifle through, Mr. Dalton?
So keep your head about you--the lot of you--understood?
Like, if nothing else, the opportunity to attend my classes, understand?
Yeah? Like what?
But I thought-
Sucking out the marrow doesn't mean getting the bone stuck in your throat, Charles. You still have responsibilities to yourself and those who care about you.
You're siding with Mr. Nolan?! What about carpe diem and sucking all the marrow out of life and all that?
I don't know what misguided impulse caused you to pull that ridiculous stunt, Mr. Dalton, but, whatever it was, I hope you've learned your lesson.
So avoid using the word 'very' because it's lazy. A man is not very tired, he is exhausted. Don't use very sad, use morose. Language was invented for one reason, boys--to woo women--and, in that endeavor, laziness will not do. It also won't do in your essays.
I here and now commit myself to daring!
This is better than sex any day. This is romance!
"O, no, it is an ever-fixed mark That looks on tempests and is never shaken; It is the star to every wandering bark whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken."
All right! I'm thinking! "Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments; love is not love Which alters when it alteration finds Or bends with the remover to remove."
Please! It's so wonderful to be appreciated for my mind!
No! Anybody else would have jumped my bones by now but you're after my soul. Make me up some more poetry.
Every guy that I meet wants me for one thing my body. You're not like that.
You know what really excites me about you?
I think you're sweet.
I think he's sweet.
And are we just playing around out here or do we mean what we say? If all we do is come and read a bunch of poems to each other, what the hell are we doing?
That's right, it's Nuwanda.
Miss it? It drives us crazy. That's part of what this club is about. In fact, I'd like to announce that I've published an article in the school paper, in the name of the Dead Poets society, demanding girls be admitted to Welton, so we can all stop beating off.
Yeah! Don't you guys miss having girls here?
Isn't he precious?
I told you, that's a secret.
It's such a strange name! Won't you tell us what it means?
If I find that there are others, Mr. Dalton, they will be expelled and you will remain enrolled. Stand up.
It's only me, Mr. Nolan. I swear. I made it up.
What is this "Dead Potts Society"? I want names.
Do you still insist that this was your idea and your idea alone?
Mr. Dalton, if you think you're the first to try to get thrown out of this school, think again. Others have had similar actions and they have failed just as surely as you will fail. Bend over and grab your shins.
No one, sir. It was just me. I did the proofing so I inserted my article in place of Rob Crane's.
Who else was involved in this?
Welton Academy, hello? Yes, he is, just a moment. Mr. Nolan, it's for you.
Good. We're very excited about him. He was a Rhodes Scholar, you know.
Yes sir. We were just talking about that.
Your family move into that new house, Mr. Overstreet?
Doing fine, sir.
Welcome. back, Mr. Dalton. How's your father?
It's better than doing nothing.
This is stupid.
Are you kidding? Don't be ridiculous.
Maybe he'll have some advice. Maybe he'll even talk to your father.
What good will that do?
Why don't you talk to Mr. Keating about it?
Damn it, Neil, the name is Nuwanda.
What are you going to do? - Charlie?
I'm supposed to turn everybody in, apologize to the school and all will be forgiven.
What happened? Were you kicked out?
Hey, would you not worry about your precious little necks? If they catch me, I'll tell them I made it up. All your asses are safe. Look, Gloria and Tina didn't come here to listen to us argue. Are we gonna have a meeting or what?
You still shouldn't have done it, Charlie. You don't speak for the club.
I'm one of the proofers. I slipped the article in.
You what?! How did you do that?
They were walking along the fence past the soccer field. Said they were curious about the school so I invited them to the meeting.
Where'd you find them?
Nothing, unless you object to having girls here.
Nuwanda, what is going on?
My parents made me take clarinet but I hated it. The sax is more sonorous.
Charlie, That was great! Where did you learn to play like that?
To put the rout all that was not life. And not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. Pledge Overstreet.
All right. I'll second that.
I went to the woods because I wanted to live deliberately." I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life!"
You're welcome to join us, Todd.
I don't know about anyone else, but I could use a refresher in Latin. Eight o'clock in my room?
Then don't tell me how to talk to my father when you're the same way. All right?!
Okay, so I don't like it any more than you do. I'm just saying
Oh yeah. Sure. Valedictorian, National Merit Scholar
Todd's brother is Jeffrey Anderson.
That's not my fault.
Hey, he's your roommate.
What's his specialty, brown-nosing?
Sure, but Cameron asked me too. Anybody mind including him?
Well, Meeks aced Latin and I didn't quite flunk English so if you want, we've got our study group.
Yeah, chemistry. My father thought I should get ahead.
Hey, I heard you went to summer school?
Chet, you don't have to hurt him.
You fucked up little prick!
What are you doing?!
It does? What?
Oh Chet, that feels fabulous,
Nice meeting you, Knox. Bye, Gin.
Chris. We got it. Let's go.
It's not all right. Come on, Dad
It's all right, Chet.
It's just for a little while. You promised.
I have to go home. Chet might call.
What is that?
Dead Poets honor.
Knox, if you promise that this will be the end of it-
Chet won't know anything. We'll sit in back and sneak away as soon as it's over.
God, if Chet found out he'd...
I promise. Dead Poets honor. Come with me tonight, then if you don't want to see me again, I swear I'll bow out.
Just give me one chance. If you don't like me after tonight, I'll stay away forever.
Knox, you are so infuriating!
Then come with me.
Chet? To a play? Are you kidding?
Are you going with Chet?
Look, I've got to go. I'm gonna be late for the play.
Then you wouldn't be here warning me about Chet.
And if it so happens that you're wrong? If it just so happens that I could care less About you?
Of course just like that. That's how you always know when it's right.
Just like that?! You just knew?
Of course I know you! From the first time I saw you, I knew you had a wonderful soul.
You say that over and over but you don't even know me!
But I love you.
Well, you did! Chet found out and he's nuts. It took everything I could do to keep him from coming here and killing you. You have to stop this stuff, Knox.
I didn't mean to make a fool of you.
Oh, but it's fine for you to come barging into my school and make a complete fool out of me?
If they catch you here, we'll both be in big trouble.
You can't be in here.
Knox, why are you doing this to me?
All I'm asking you to do is listen. "The heavens made a girl named Chris, With hair and skin of gold To touch her would be paradise To kiss her glory untold."
Knox, I don't believe this!
Knox, you're crazy.
I don't care. I love you, Chris. You deserve better than Chet and I'm it. Please accept these.
If Chet sees you, he'll kill you, don't you know that?
Knox! what are you doing here?
carpe breastum. Seize the breast.
I gotta find Chet. Make yourself at home.
Ginny Danburry's here. Look for her.
Oh, hi. I'm glad you made it. Did you bring anybody?
I'll be there. The Danburrys. Friday night. Thank you, Chris.
Chet's parents don't know about it, so please keep it quiet. But you can bring someone if you like.
You are? She's glad I called!
Knox. Oh yes, Knox. I'm glad you called.
Hello Chris, this is Knox Overstress.
You going out for the Henley Hall play? They're doing "A Midsummer Night's Dream."
That's your sister school, right?
Ridgeway High. How's Henley Hall, Gin?
So, uh, where are you in school?
The pleasure is mine.
Pleased to meet you.
That goes for all of you. Now eat with your correct hands.
Mr. Overstreet, I suggest you worry less about breaking old habits and more about developing good study habits. Do you understand?
They perpetuate mechanical living, sir. They limit your mind.
What is wrong with old habits, Mr. Overstreet?
We thought it would be good to break old habits, sir.
"We went to the woods because we wanted to suck all the marrow out of life." Anybody want to read?
We used to meet here on special occasions. Who would like to convene the meeting?
Rahesh Non never existed, Mr. Meeks. You make him or someone like him up. No self important college professor such as this one would dare admit ignorance of such an obviously important figure and you will probably receive a comment similar to the one I received:
Oh Captain, My Captain. What if we don't know anything about someone like Rahesh Non?
Oh, Captain, My Captain. Is there poetry in math?
And don't limit poetry to the word. Poetry can be found in a work of art, music, a photograph, in the way a meal is prepared--anything with the stuff of revelation in it. It can exist in the most everyday things but it must never, never be ordinary By all means, write about the sky or a girl's smile but when you do, let your poetry conjure up salvation day, doomsday, any day, I don't care, as long as it enlightens us, thrills us and--if it's inspired--makes us feel a bit immortal.
Precisely, Meeks. Greek for the herd. However, be warned that, when you say "the hoi polloi" you are actually saying the the herd. Indicating that you too are "hoi polloi."
The hoi polloi. Doesn't it mean the herd?
Seize the day while you're young, see that you make use of your time. Why does the poet write these lines?
Very good, Mr._?
Carpe Diem... seize the day.
Gather ye rosebuds while ye may. The Latin term for that sentiment is "Carpe Diem." Anyone know what that means?
At these boys' age? Not on your life! Tradition, John. Discipline. Prepare them for college, and the rest will take care of itself.
I always thought education was learning to think for yourself.
John, the curriculum here is set. It's proven. It works. If you question it, what's to prevent them from doing the same?
Oh that. That was an exercise to prove a point. About the evils of conformity.
Boys marching. Clapping in unison.
What was going on in the courtyard the other day?
Your reprimand made quite an impression I'm sure.
English. Way before your time. It was hard giving it up, I'll tell you. I'm hearing rumors, John, of some unusual teaching methods in your classroom. I'm not saying they have anything to do with the Dalton boy's outburst, but I don't think I have to warn you that boys his age are very impressionable.
I didn't know you taught.
This was my first classroom, John, did you know that? My first desk.
I have something.
Come on boys, don't be shy.
From the moment we enter crying to the moment we leave dying, It will cover just your head as you wail and cry and scream!
Stretch it, pull it, it will never cover any of us. Kick at it, beat at it, it will never be enough-
His hands reach out and choke me All the time he mumbles slowly. Truth... Truth is like a blanket that always leaves your feet cold.
Excellent! Have him act. Give it rhythm!
A sweaty-toothed madman with a stare that pounds my brain.
A sweaty-toothed madman
I... I close my eyes. His image floats beside me.
Now there's the poet speaking! Close your eyes and think of the picture. Describe what you see. NOW!
A... A sweaty-toothed madman.
Use your imagination! First thing that pops to your mind, even if it's gibberish!
A crazy madman.
A madman. Perhaps he was. What kind of madman? Don't think! Answer.
Todd, there's a picture of Whitman over the door. What does he remind you Of? Quickly, Anderson, don't think about it.
All right! Very good! There's a barbarian in there after all!
Good god, boy! Yell!
A barbaric yawp.
Yeah. He didn't like it one bit but at least he's letting me stay in the play. Of course, he won't be able to come. He'll be in Chicago on business. But I think he's gonna let me stay with acting. As long as I keep my grades up.
Really? You told your father what you told me? You let him see your passion for acting?
What did your father say? Did you talk to him?
Not if you're going to stay true to yourself.
Isn't there an easier way?
Give your father the benefit of the doubt. Talk to him. Let him see who you are.
Eighteen! That's two years! What about the play? The performance is tomorrow night!
Well, if it's more than a whim, then you'll have to prove that to him. You'll have to show him with your passion and commitment that it's what you really want to do. If that doesn't work, at least by then you'll be eighteen and able to do what you want.
I know what he'll say. He'll say that acting is just a whim and that it's frivolous and that I should forget about it. He'll tell me how they're counting on me and to put it out of my mind "for my own good."
Neil, I know this seems impossible but you have to go to your father and show him what you're feeling. You have to let him see who you are- It's your only chance.
Then you're playing a part for him too, aren't you? A dangerously self- destructive one.
Are you kidding? He'd kill me!
You can't live a life for someone else, Neil. You can only live for yourself. Have you told your father what you just told me? Have you shown him your passion about acting?
Mr. Keating, my father is making me quit the play at Henley Hall. When I think about carpe diem and all that, I feel like I'm in prison! I mean, I can see his point. We're not a rich family like Charlie's. But he's planned the rest of my life for me and he's never even asked me what I want!
Ah, but I am seeing the world, Neil. The new world. Seeing a student like you take root and bloom. It's worth everything. That's why I came back here. A place like this needs at least one teacher like me. Did you come here to talk about my teaching?
Why do you do it? I mean, with all this seize-the-day business, I'd have thought you'd be out seeing the world or something?
Maybe they don't want worldly things distracting me from my teaching.
Gosh, they don't give you much room around here, do they?
Actually, I'd like to talk to you alone.
Oh Captain, My Captain, we came here so I could talk to you about something.
All poetry was acceptable. The name simply referred to the fact, that to join the organization, you had to be dead.
What did the name mean. Did you only read dead poets.
Nothing wrong with research.
I was just looking in an old annual and...
Ah, so you boy's have been snooping.
Mr. Keating? Sir? Oh Captain My Captain. What was the Dead Poets Society?
I don't know.
All right! What'd she say?
Nuwanda recited poetry to Gloria and she jumped all over him... right, Nuwanda?
She won't even see me, Pitts.
Why don't you read it to her? It worked for Nuwanda.
Damn. Damn! If I could just get Chris to read this poem!
You have another choice.
You really think I should forget her?
I can't just forget her, Pitts. And I certainly can't think about math!
All the good ones go for jerks, you know that. Forget her. Take out your trig book and figure out problem twelve.
It's not too bad. It's a tragedy! Why does she have to be in love with a jerk?!
I'm calling her!
Where are you going?
But she's in love with: the moron son of my father's best friend. What would the dead poets say about that?
You know what the dead poets would say: Gather ye rosebuds while ye may...
She's practically engaged to Chet Danburry. Mr. Mondo Jocko himself.
Are you crazy? What's wrong with that?
Listen, anything's, better than mystery meat.
They're friends of my dad. Probably in their nineties or something.
What I have to do. Screw the annual.
All right. Jesus, what are you gonna do?
Yeah, you just do everything they say! You'll be in daddy's law firm as sure as I'm standing here. And you'll be approving loans till you croak.
Wait a minute. I don't let my parents walk on me.
I gotta get to the tryouts. Wish me luck.
God, I want to do everything! I'm going to explode.
If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost. That is where they should be. Now put foundations under them.
Then you can help him.
His grades are hurting, Charlie.
Nothing. No mention of it.
Any group pictures in the annual?
Screw it all. I don't give a damn about any of it.
I certainly wouldn't lose any sleep over it. It's just a bunch of people trying to impress Nolan.
I don't care if the world is coming to an end tomorrow night, you are through with that play! Is that clear? Is that clear!
Father, I have the main part. The performance is tomorrow night. Father, please.
Did you really think I wouldn't find out?! "My niece is in a play with your son," Mrs. Marks says. "You must be mistaken," I say. "My son isn't in a play." You made a liar out of me, Neil! Now you will go tomorrow and tell them you are quitting.
Nobody- I thought I'd surprise you. I've got all As and-
Don't you dare talk back to me! It's bad enough that you've wasted your time with this absurd acting business. But you deliberately deceived me! Who put this in your head? How did you expect to get away with it? Answer me!
Neil, you are going to quit this ridiculous play immediately.
Good boy. Call us if you need anything.
You know me, always taking on too much.
You know what this means to your mother, don't you?
Yes sir. I'm sorry.
When you've finished medical school and you're on your own, you can do as you please. Until then, you will listen to me.
Father, I wasn't disputing you.
I will not be disputed in public, do you understand me?
Fellows, would you excuse us a minute?
But father, it's not fair.
I'm sorry, Neil.
But father, I'm assistant editor.
The god of the cave.
What is it?
Look at this.
Forget it, Pitts, you're coming. Meeks, your grades hurting too?
What is this, a midnight study group?
Beyond the stream. I think I know.
Where is this cave he's talking about?
I say we go tonight. Everybody in?
I don't know.
Do you have to quit the play?
Visit from my father.
That's it! "Follow my voice. We'll try no manhood here." See you at dinner.
YEA, ART THOU THERE?!
Put more into it!
Yea, art thou there?
Chicken shit. Where were we?
I'll come to the performance.
Lots of girls. The girl who plays Hermia is incredible.
You should come to rehearsals. I know they need people to work the lights and stuff.
Yes, and acting! It's got to be one of the most wonderful things in the world. Most people, if they're lucky, live about half an exciting life! If I could get the parts, I could live dozens of lives.
Follow me then to plainer ground. God, I love this!
I will be with thee straight.
Here, villain, draw and ready. where art thou?
Yeah! And just look at this ruler!
I mean, this is one special gift! Who would want a football or a baseball bat or a car when they could get a desk set as wonderful as this one!
Look, Todd, you're obviously under- estimating the value of this desk set.
Maybe they don't think at all unless it's about my brother! His birthday's always a big to-do. The stupid thing is, I didn't even like the first one.
Well, maybe they thought you'd need another one. Maybe they thought...
They gave me the exact same thing as last year!
This is your desk set. I don't get it.
It is? Happy Birthday. You get anything?
It's my birthday.
Todd, what's the matter?
Quiet. I have to think.
Neil, you're not gonna...
From my father and Nolan.
Sssh. That's what I'm taking care of. They need a letter of permission.
Neil, how are you gonna do this?
No? What do you mean 'no'?
No! I don't know, I'll probably never know. The point is, there's nothing you can do about it so butt out, all right? I can take care of myself just fine. All right?
Why not? Don't you think you could be?
Listen Neil, I appreciate your interest in me but I'm not like you. When you say things, people pay attention. People follow you. I'm not like that.
No, I want you in. But being in means you gotta do something. Not just say you're in.
You want me out... is that what you're saying?
Being in the club means being stirred up by things. You look about as stirred up as a cesspool.
What is that supposed to mean?
None of what Mr. Keating has to say means shit to you, does it?
By the way, there's a meeting this afternoon. You coming?
Jesus Christ, whose side are you on? I haven't even gotten the part yet. Can't I enjoy the idea even for a little while?
But if he said no before then...
That's a laugh. If I don't ask, at least I won't be disobeying him.
Why don't you ask him first? Maybe he'll say yes.
Horseshit. Nothing's impossible.
Come on, that's impossible.
As far as I'm concerned, he won't have to know about any of it.
Won't he kill you if you don't let him know you're auditioning?
First I gotta get the part, then I'll worry about that.
Neil, how are you gonna be in a play if your father won't let you?
Hell no, but that's not the point. The point is for the first time in my whole goddamned life, I know what I want, and for the first time I'm gonna do it whether my father wants me to or not! Carpe diem, goddamn it!
And now he will?
So I'm gonna act! Ever since I can remember I've wanted to try it. Last summer I even tried to go to summer stock auditions but of course my father wouldn't let me.
They're putting it on at Henley Hall. See, open try-outs.
I know that. What's it got to do with you?
A play, dummy.
A Midsummer Night's Dream. What is it?
What I want to do! Right now. What is really inside of me.
I've found it.
God, you really have a problem, don't you? How can it hurt you to read? I mean isn't that what this is all about? Expressing yourself?
Keating said everybody took turns reading. I don't want to do it.
I don't want to read.
Put what? Goddamn it, tell me.
But why? Don't you understand what Keating is saying? Don't you want to do something about it?
I... I just don't want to come.
What is it then?
Thanks but I'd better do history.
Want to come to the study group?
Todd, if you're gonna make it around here, you've gotta speak up. The meek might inherit the earth but they don't get into Harvard. know what I mean?
I'll take him over mine.
So what do you think of my father?
Well, you've won the booby prize. Don't expect to like it here.
My parents wanted me here all along but my grades weren't good enough. I had to go to Balincrest to pull them up.
Oh, so you're that Anderson.
My brother went here.
Why'd you leave Balincrest?
I hear we're going to be roommates. Neil Perry.
All right, be cool, everybody, nice and slow, no sudden moves.
They are...they are everywhere.
We're going to die here! We're going to die!
It's not going to help us!
Why don't you want a message sent?
He's the owner...
Who are you?
We have to make it to the third deck...
How do we get out of here?
You the Captain?
I don't know what these things are ...all I know is...
And what? These things are octopusses?
Us...I'm talking about us... We're the fish.
What the hell are you talking about?
I once saw a guy put a fish in a bottle, then he corked it, sealing it tight, and threw it to a baby octopus. The little sucker felt its way around that bottle, and in less than two minutes, got that cork off, slid inside, and ate that fish.
I'll kill you!! I'll fucking kill you!! I'll do it! I'll do it! I'm not playin' around here!
Nobody's shooting nobody...come on, just let us through the hatch!
Boat or no boat...I'm going...
We don't even know if his boat is still there...you saw Billy!
Someone...maybe they sent an SOS!
Or maybe we're exactly where they want us to be.
Maybe we lost them.
Just trying to get to my boat...
You trying to take over my show Finnegan, that what you trying to do?
That's where my boat's moored.
Who gives a shit about aft?
Did you clear this?
Shut up! Shut up all of you! Now here's what we're doing... Mamooli is going to take you back to fix your engines, Chin and I are staying here to finish the job...
I told you...
Now, where's Mulligan? Where's Vivo?
Where are my men?
I'd say that's a pretty good assumption.
I assume somebody up there has made sure no distress signal can be sent.
And she could do a hell of a barbie to boot! Belt up. You'll find all the parts you need up there.
Great woman your mother. Real foresight.
Then you better start swimming.
Not an option.
You're going to have to get a new one.
We were talking about my schedule...
I have a schedule...
We can't...we got one engine dead, and the other limping badly.
How soon can we get up and running?
Speedboat in the middle of the ocean...
I know it...but you want to get where you want to get, and back? I need a chief engineer, and unless you got a replacement, I'd highly recommend overlooking the indescretion.
He did...with a crowbar...you know the rules on a broken contract.
Who asked any?
And no questions asked.
20 hours on the clock. Out and back. Double for overtime.
This isn't right Finnegan. I've got a contract.
I don't mind him...but I do think it's time for him to get back down below with the rest of the playgroup.
Don't mind him Finnegan...you remember 25...balls of steel... splashing around in a sea of testosterone.
Take note Mr. Mason...this is why you hire a professional...No whining. No excuses.
The one you came up to ask...are we on schedule?
Which question is that?
Right here...middle of nowhere...and the answer to your question is yes.
And where is our point of arrival?
Right here...middle of nowhere...
You know what they say...the classics are eternal.
No, it just struck me as odd...I don't see you for all these years and you've still got the same tape stuck in the box.
Fok Yu and Fok Yu Two...are we strolling down memory lane for any particular reason?
You remember the first time we met Finnegan? I think you were just starting out...smuggling gold off Sumatra for those two Chinese...what did we use to call them?
He's not coming...
Where's you friend?
This time, make an exception.
I don't take orders at all.
You don't take orders very well, do you?
Three minutes...I'm not back...no matter what...you go...
Soon as I get over the heart attack...
I don't mean to drop in unannounced ...you ready...
And what if I run into one of those things?
Not unless you can wire a missle or fix an engine.
You want ME to go up there?
How about noise? Can you get noise? We don't need speed, just noise, right?
Jet ski...there's one left up there.
If you blow up your boat, how are we going to get to the island?
There's not much horsepower left in the engines, but there's enough noise...once this baby's set...I'll rev it up...that slimy bastard will come for it like candy...
...the minute you start your engines ...it's goint to kill us, isn't it?
Not like him.
Oh my god! Oh my god! How do we do it? How do we get there?
You know what kind of force it took to rip open the bow of this ship? A million little things like this...
It's not them...it's it...
I was so goddamn close, Finnegan! So goddamn close to my island... I could almost taste the sand...
You quit high school, lie about your age, join the navy, and next thing you know, four years are up and you need a way to make a living...
So how do you get from the Bronx to the South China sea?
You should talk...
We can't just leave them here.
A meat locker.
What is it?
What's the matter?
I'm saying they're calling the shots...
You're saying they can think?
Takes one to know one.
How do you know that?
The "come back" kind.
Oh yeah? What kind is that?
Boat or no boat... You woulda come back anyway. You're that kind of gal.
Right... You have a boat.
Yeah you did...
Hey! I didn't have to come back.
On the side!!
I don't know where it is!
Takes one to know one.
With the emphasis on SELF, and in selfish, right?
Since I'm a kid, I had this dream... I want to own my own tropical island... Beaches, warm ocean, lots of food, little clothes...population of one...
Quite a few.
Seen a lot of islands?
That's what I do.
So this boat of yours...that's what you do? Give people...rides.
Thank you, I work at it...
Well, you sure do a good imitation.
I'm not rich people.
You people...rich people...
What's that supposed to mean? You people.
Look lady, I know you people are used to getting your way...
You don't have to be so touchy.
Nothing...you want to come, come... you don't...
But what makes you think there aren't more of those...things...back there?
...there's got to be a way to access out back there...
Hey! Hey! Where are you going?
I don't know...
What are those things?
Jesus Christ lady...
You hear that?
I was born in a City housing project in the Bronx OK? It's not in the cards that I die on a luxury cruise ship...now which way up?
He's with them.
What are you people talking about?
Unless you collected on the insurance...
I'm their ride.
Then who are you?
I'm not a thief.
What other bunch?
Who asked you to!
I saved your life is what I did!
Now look what you did!
It ain't any better out there!
I'm not staying here!
Shut up, man, just shut the hell up! I gotta think! I gotta think!!
...we gotta get outta here -- NOW.
Shut up! You hear me!!
Why don't you just stop figuring and keep working so we can get the hell out of here?
So...If the hull's impregnable why are my feet wet?
The hulls of these things are supposed to be impregnable...
You ain't giving the orders here!
Let's just keep going.
Or I could go for a swim...although, I gotta tell you...if I never get in the water again...
Because it's cool, you know, I can always take a walk or something down the beach...
Was it the water in my eyes or were you guys about to...
You're beautiful what you're jealous, you know that, Joey?
All you're gonna do is get yourself killed...and for what? Some chick?
Second whistle you make it to the deck and get ready to jump...
One whistle... Start the engine...
Man, don't go up there...
How does an island sound to you?
And what have you come up with?
I have been.
I'm telling you, man, we got to give the future some serious thought.
Line it up now, nice and easy...
I think we gotta stop floating from one fucked up situation to the next...
A little to the left...
You know what I think? I think our luck has just about run shit out...
And you got 10 minutes before this thing livens up a boring evening.
I've never seen you so congenial with a mamber of the opposite sex... The two of you got a nice patter going...got a nice rapport...
Seafood salad. You ever operate a jet ski?
Can somebody tell me what the object of the exercise is here?
For juice, I gotta rebuild. That's not fast.
Squid...squid like...squid type... it's got tentacles, a feed sac... probably one central nervous processor somewhere...what the hell do I know is going on deep down in the ocean...there's all sorts of shit we've never seen...eighty foot clams...60 foot sharks...I'm just guessing...can you get me more juice out of Hercules...fast?
Red cross over to blue double blue ...is that what it is? A squid?
Joey, you want to get sucked out by a giant fucking mutated squid?
Not even a Joey, I'm glad to see you? Joey, what happened to your leg?
Just the man I wanted to see. On this puppy here, you remember if it's red to blue or blue to red...
Don't shoot!! Don't shoot!!
Joey... Which way's aft?
If I don't, I ain't going back to get it...you think we're safe?
I don't know...you got what we need?
Finnegan, what the hell was that?
It's okay...come on...
Joey...look at me...
What? You don't think I can have a normal life?
...Like a house in the suburbs... maybe a couple of kids...some sort of business...be in the bowling league...go to the ball games...
You know what I'm gonna do after this...I'm gonna get a normal life...
Good! So maybe he also know where the hell am I going to get the parts I need...
I think he knows that Joey.
No! The man in the moon!! Who's driving this thing?
What did you do the my kids!!
Oh yeah...and that my stich job doesn't make you uglier than you already are...this won't hurt a bit...
That's it? That's all you give a shit about?
Sure I do...I give a shit that at 0300 hour we reach our point of dentination. I give a shit that those mojos got to do what they got to do, and 45 minutes later we are turn around and gone. I give a shit that by the time the sun comes up we are all safely tucked in bed.
You don't give a shit about anything do you?
...Jagger was here...I was here...
I saw these guy perform...at Altmont ...you know that? They opened for the Stones...
Here's what I think...I think these mokes below are a hit sqaud.
I know...I know...if the cash is there we don't care... Finnegan this is as mean a pile of shit as we ever carried...
If I told you once...I told you a thousand times...
I'm flying blind here God damn it!
Can we use our indoor voice please...
You want some too?
Why don't you back off?
Where are you going?
You tell it straight or I pull the trigger. Who are you?
I mean...where is everbody?
Where is everybody?
Or maybe not.
What is it man?
I'm not screwing around with you man...I hate the cold water.
Hey! You hear me? Come out!
Check it out!
Hey! Come out here!
Someone's back there.
What was that?
Plans don't change...
Maybe plans changed...
I thought the plan was we'd evacuate them after we got through.
Like Mamooli's country...
What the hell does that mean?
You mean countries that are acknowledged by the UN...or like made up countires too?
You know what my goal is? Before I die I want to make love to a woman from every country on earth.
There ain't no thing here!! No thing!! There's you him and me!! Got it! You him and...
What's there to think about?? That THING back there...
What happened to Vivo?! What the hell happened to Vivo?
Don't shoot, man, don't shoot!
'Cause grease monkey ain't in my job description dick head...
Why don't you help us so we can get done faster so we can get the hell out of here?
Hey! What are you trying to pull!
Maybe it's the wrong ship.
Hey! Fuckin' A! Just... just like a hot shit... except cold.
Sweet! Oh, that is sweet!
Hey! Fuckin' A!
Here's to huntin'.
Nick, Vince, Albert and John.
We're all going.
John,we're going huntin'.
Here. Here we go. Here's to you, Nick!
Hey Geraldine, let's eat!
Maxie! Hey Maxie wha'd'ya say!
I mean let's get going before --
Get the boots.
I'll get the boots.
Good... Pass the beer.
You just put mustard on your Hershey bar.
Gimme a Hostess Twinkie, Merle.
You want 'em?
Those are mine!
Fuel up. Need fuel.
Fucking women, man...
She fucked us both.
She fucked me too.
She fucked you?
She fucked me too.
She fucked me.
She fucked you?
She does, Vince! That's what I'm telling you! She does!!!
She might!!! She might do it, Albert, but you can't fuckin' tell me that she does!!!
In case???!!! In case of what? In case you stumble on her, suckin' cock in the front fucking hall?!
In case!!! The gun's in case!!!
Then what's the gun for! What's this for?
She does not!
I'm tellin' you she does it, Vince! With twenty guys you know!
I know! I fuckin' know!
You, Vince! You! You are! You're a crock! You're a walking, talking crock!... I mean, what do you know?
Who? Who is?
You're full of shit, Vince! You're so full of shit you're going to float away!
Hey! Fuckin' A! Time to roll!!!
Vince thinks... you know...
Hey, Nick, I mean... This here is for the guy that gets caught!
Well... you remember Cynthia?
Tell him, Vince!
Yeah. Oh, boy, yeah... Jes', you must be tired.
What do you think? You think he's been picking flowers? Fuckin' guy's been saving your ass, Albert. Everybody's ass! Even in Europe!
I know, but...
Fuckin' guy's been shooting slants, Albert! I mean, what do you think?
Where the hell were you? We were all set -- beer, broads. Right? Am I right?
Nick...? Jesus, Nick!
What the --!
Fuckin' A. It's gotta!
It's gotta be the next one. I mean it's gotta be! Right, Albert?
So he's in the next one, Albert. I mean take it easy. I mean you're driving everybody nuts!
I thought that was it.
Jesus, it's freezing!
They did too!
They did not!
I'm telling you, they changed it!
You're full of shit!
Who's full of shit?
You're full of shit.
This is it. Definitely. This is it, but they changed it.
It is too! Now you passed it!
It is not!
I'll get it! Where is it?
Ammo! Get the ammo!
And we want you to know, Sal, that any help you might need--
What do you think, Sal? Jesus, you think we'd miss this?
Nick! Nick, you'll kill him!... Easy. Nick, easy! Hey, hey. Vince goes back a long way.
Well, where the hell is he!!! I mean what are we all sitting here for!!! WHAT THE HELL IS THIS???
He's real bad, Nick.
Worse since she talked to who?
He's serious. Vince is fuckin' serious!
Tell him, Vince.
Look who's talkin'! Jes'! He got married! Vince got married!
Hey, Nick! God damn!... What've you been doin', I mean...
I got delayed. I --
I love this car. Some cars sit, you know? This car, a car like this... grows. I mean you never know, with a car like this, where this car has been.
Couple of weeks... Listen --
That's new, isn't it?
Here. Hit it here.
Where should I hit it? Just show me where I should hit it.
You gotta hit it here. Here, Albert, not there.
It won't open.
Albert! For Christ's sake... John! Wait a minute, you guys!
You know what Sal's got now?... Sal's got... one arm, Nick, and... that's it.
Did you ever think life would turn out like this?
He doesn't want people bugging him, Nick!
Hey, Angela, Sal and I go back a long way.
Nick... Sal is very weak. He suffered a severe wound... and right now he doesn't want a whole lot of people to get involved in a whole thing.
What hospital is he in? Where?
Oh, sure... Twice a day.
You talk to him?
Nick, he's fine. He's in a hospital and they're fixing him up.
Where? Where is he?
Sure. Why not.
Angela, I just heard Sal was alive.
I'm glad. Seriously... I'm very glad.
Merle is under his tree... Beside the terrace. You can't miss him.
Where is he???
You are his friend.
Ah. Merle. And you know Merle?
I came to see Merle.
C'est tres amusant... You have been promoted. And to a Jew... I am joking of course. Naturellement. Seriously, Nick, may I hope that you have come to play?
Unfortunately I must now go in, but I leave you my card. Naturellement I pay my players cash American. Just so you know.
No. None of that.
But of course! Please make yourself comfortable. Perhaps you would enjoy some fresh caviar, or une petite glace, or --?
Yeah... Do you mind if I sit?
Ah yes. Of course. To the girl who waits.
See, I'm going home.
You are frightened, no?
I have to go.
But I insist.
No, I --
But you must come in.
I have to go.
Elephants! Make way... I gotta get elephants!
Wait! First I give you special fuck!
You call me Linda, just like home.
You like to call me Linda now?
I show you. Come. You come. Linda have special, crazy fuck. That right?
How you like to have nice fuck with Linda? You like that? Special, crazy fuck just like with Linda?
Only,good people love Linda, see. What Linda has, Linda --
I love Linda. Myself, I love Linda so much!
That's right. That's exactly what I mean!
Everybody love Linda.
I love Linda, see. I love Linda more than I can even say.
How was huntin'?
She's in back.
Now he's back.
Sure! I got eight hundred potatoes says he goes one more... He retired, you know.
Merle? That's who we're looking for. Merle.
You know a guy named Merle?
Boy, do I love this conflict. Huh?... What the hell were you doin' in there?
Not bad fresh, but they don't keep worth a pig's fart.
Those fuckin' niggers. This time I'm going to eat balls!... You ever try 'em?
Where's it gone?
'Course how could you miss, right? Twenty, maybe thirty feet. I mean, if I'd'a been where you guys were --
Nick, we don't know where Sal is... Nick, Angela won't tell us.
Take last night...! Last night he coulda had twenty fuckin' deer! More! He coulda had more! And look what he does! I mean look what he fuckin' does!!!
Vince. Hey, you guys --
Merle, hey Merle, you got any socks?
Who's got the ammo?
Get 'em! For Christ sake, get 'em!
Oh well! What do you mean Oh well?! The guy is actually... He did it again! That's what he's doing... He... He's reaching in, John, to her --! I'll kill him! I'm gonna kill him right now.
Look at that, see... Watch. Wait a minute, watch. There! D'j'u see that? D'j'u see the way he... You know what that guy is doing? That guy is squeezing her ass!
Shhh! Albert's gonna hump the Coup de Ville.
She's out of her tree, Nick. She is straight out of her tree.
But Sal's mother! What about Sal's mother!
Nick, she won't say why.
Why?... What do you mean?... Why???
Kind of. You didn't know?
Talked to Sal? Sal's alive?
Worse since she talked to him.
Not so good.
No. How's Angela? How's she taking it?
Rough. We didn't have to do it, John.
Sit down. Here. Right here. Albert! Vince!
Fine. Hey, I'm fine.
Nick! Hey, Nick! Boy! Boy oh boy! Are you okay? You're okay, huh?
I will not betray my country. No. Ne-ver!
That I must not tell you. Top secret. You see there. Topmost secret.
Listen, Biederman, I'm going to club you into the floor unless you tell me what the fuck is so important.
Please! Please mister, please! This is vital I go to Saigon. This is very important. Most important.
I got you on this flight, Biederman. Is that right?
Biederman! Where's Biederman!
I'll be out... Just leave me. I'll be out. I'm fine. Really. I'm fine.
C'mon. I've got the car.
I'm just so lonely.
Hey. Look. There must be something.
I don't know.
Linda... Honey, what's wrong?
That's wonderful. I think you should... fresh air.
Yeah... All the guys, we're all going huntin'. Like we did. You know? Like we always used to.
I see you're going hunting.
You're going hunting?
Oh. Nothing... Sitting.
What are you doing?
Nick. It's okay... It's okay. I have to go now.
I'll kill 'em. Anybody bothers you, I'll kill 'em!
Oh, it's great. Fine.
Does this... I mean, how does this job work out?
Naw, it's... This guy wants his money.
Maybe... I don't know, if you want to talk --
Naw, it's... I mean...
Nick?... I just want to say how sorry I am about Sal and about Merle. How... I know you loved them and I know it's not the same. I mean now.
Oh, no. It just kind of goes thump. Would you like a Coke? You don't drink Coke. Or maybe you do. What about champagne? Let's have champagne! I don't think we have champagne. Let's have this. See? Sparkling. I'll get you an opener. Oh, that's right. No opener. Let's just have beer. Do you want some cheese? Or maybe eggs? Maybe we should have coffee.
Did you get hurt? You didn't get hurt?
Is that what it is? I couldn't figure out.
Great. Fine... Once or twice it did fall off the blocks. I don't know what that's from.
How's the trailer?
I made you a sweater. Here... You have to take that off.
It was just the complications. I mean, you take a little thing over there and then you get complications. I mean all the guys had it.
That was nothing. That wasn't anything.
Fine. I just go along, you know. Down at the market. Back here. I mean it just seems there's a million things to do!... Are you sure you're all right? I mean, what about the wound?
Fine. I'm fine. How are you?
How are you?
Oh, Nick! Oh I missed you so!
I thought... Oh, Nick, I thought you were hurt, some accident. Maybe you fell or maybe some car... I thought someone stole you away!
Give her Miller's. Miller's High Life.
I don't know.
What kind of beer would you like?
Sit with Linda, man, will ya?... Give her a beer. Would you like a beer?
I don't know! I don't know either!
I don't know what we've been waiting for!
Will you marry me?
I would want to pay you, Nick... and I was thinking --
Linda... Hey, Linda...
I'd want to pay you... and I was thinking --
Sure. Are you kidding? Sure.
I was just wondering... Nick... You're going hunting... If I could use this place to stay, because...
Oh... You know...
Linda, what's the matter?
Hi. Nick, your shoes are soaking.
How extremely clever. That is really most extraordinaire... Allow me please to introduce myself. I am Armand... And you are?
And then you...
We... Three bullets.
Ah yes. Of course... So few survive. La creme de la creme... How did you obtain release?
Mais certainment... A great deal of money. Naturally I do not do it myself. I myself do not possess the nerve. But I am always... how do you say... looking out for those who do... It is a thing quite rare. Champagne perhaps? Tch, tch. Don't say no. When a man says no to champagne, he says no to life and that no man must ever do. Where did you play?
I... No. You do this for money?
You seem... disturbed.
Sure. Sure, Sal. We're going home.
Where are we going, Merle? Are we going home?
Sal! Sal... Goddamn it, Sal, don't you know anything?
Where are we going, Merle? Are we going home?
Merle, I wanna go home!
Listen to me, Sal. If you don't do it they'll put you in the pit. If they put you in the pit, Sal, you're gonna die... Sal, do you understand?
This is horrible!
You have to think about this, Sal. Listen to me, Sal! You have to think about this.
I want to go home, Merle.
Sal... listen to me, Sal! You have to do it.
No. No, no.
You can do it, Sal.
Who the hell knows!
Who the hell is he?
Merle... Hey, Merle, listen... Why?
I like it, Nick.
Fine. She's fine... Merle, what the hell are you doing?
I did. I... This is stolen. I came back.
Nick!... I thought you went home.
Merle...! Jesus! Hey, how are you?
YOU'RE CRAZY!!!... NO WAY!... NOW YOU'RE CRAZY!!! YOU'RE COMPLETELY CRAZY!!!
When you get the AK, open up. You got me? Open up.
No. No way!
I'll pick the moment, Nick. The game goes on until I move. When I start shooting, go for the nearest guard and get his gun.
No way. No fucking way!
Three bullets -- minimum.
How many bullets?
Nick... NICK!!! It's the only chance we've got!
With more bullets?... Against each other?... Are you crazy!!! Are you fucking nuts!!!
More bullets in the gun... The trouble is that still leaves one of us with his hands tied up, so that means we gotta play each other.
More bullets in the gun?
We gotta play with more bullets, Nick. It's the only way.
We gotta play with more bullets.
LISTEN, NICK! GET IT THROUGH YOUR HEAD OR YOU AND ME ARE BOTH DEAD TOO!
Forget Sal... Listen to me -- forget Sal! I've been working on Sal since dawn, Nick. Sal's in a dream and he won't come out. LISTEN!!! From here on you gotta go for you. You hear me? For you!
I mean forget Sal... Sal can't take it, Nick.
What do you mean?
Okay, okay! Okay. Okay, you're right... What about Sal?
Get off your ass, Nick. Get off your fucking ass and stand up!!!
You're right... Okay, you're right.
Nick, you're wasting your time... Listen to me! You're wasting your time! This is no fucking time for hoping or praying or wishing or any other shit! This is it. Here we are... And we gotta get out!
What do you think?
I suppose you wish you were somewhere else?
I'm doing that too.
I thought you might be praying.
What are you, hoping?
They bombed last night, right? Didn't they bomb? If they bombed last night, they could bomb tonight. They could be up there right now!
Listen, asshole, it's up to us!
What are you, God?
I'm telling you, Nick, no one's going to come.
Yeah... I mean so he knows... He doesn't even know.
Hunt with Vince?
Tomorrow I go with Vince.
It's ahead, Vince.
It's ahead, by the tree.
You got it.
Promise! You gotta promise!
I love this fuckin' place... That sounds crazy. I know that sounds crazy, but I love this fuckin' place... If anything happens, Nick, don't leave me there. I mean it. Don't leave me... You gotta promise, Nick. You gotta promise me that.
You think we'll ever come back?
Well, where's he from?
Is he from here?
What'd he say?
Fucking A. See that ribbon in the left. That's Quan Son. That fucking guy was at Quan Son!
Nick, he just came back.
Yeah. When it comes to hunting, that's true.
You're a fucking nut. You know that, Merle? You're a fucking maniac!
Who's a yo-yo...? Who do you think's a yo-yo! They're all yo yo's. I mean they're all great guys, for Christ's sake, but... The point is, Nick, without you I'd hunt alone. Seriously. I would. That's what I'd do.
Yo-yo! Who's a yo-yo?
I'll tell you something, Nick. I wouldn't hunt with anyone but you. I won't hunt with a yo-yo.
I don't know... I guess I think about the deer... Being out, maybe. I don't know. I think about it all. Hell, I like the trees, you know? I like the ways the trees are, all the different ways the trees are too.
What do you think about?
Yeah... I guess.
You have to think about the shot. It's the shot. The shot's it.
I don't think about the shot that much.
So do I. I want to be ready... You have to be ready... It has to be there, in your mind.
You think about it?
So do I.
I just wait. For this... It's what I wait for... I wait all year.
I just wait. You know?
That way it sets.
You should have put that on last night.
Won't we? Right? Am I right?
Humper's ready. Old humper's hotter'n damn hell!
You know what I think? There's times I think you're a goddamn faggot!... I fixed you up a million times, Merle! I fixed him up a million times! I don't know how many times I fixed him up... and nothin' ever happens... Zilch! Zero!... The trouble with you, Merle, no one knows what you're talking about! "This is this"? What does that mean, "this is this"? I mean is that some faggot bullshit, or is that some faggot bullshit!!! And if it isn't, what the hell is it???
This is this, Vince. This isn't something else. This is this!
You're one fuckin' bastard, Merle. You know that? You're one fucking bastard!
You gotta learn, Vince! You come out here... You got no jacket, you got no pants, you got no knife and you got no boots. You think everyone's gonna take care of you! That's what you always think, but this time you're wrong. This time you're on your own!
Some fuckin' friend... You're some fuckin' friend, Merle!
That's it. No. No way.
What do you mean, no???
Then lemme have 'em.
Sure I got boots. I got boots right here.
Here! This is it!
Watch it, shithead!
Here, here! This is it!
How much? How much do you wanna bet?
I'll betcha! That's bullshit and I'll betcha! You're fulla shit!
You wanna bet?
Bullshit! That's bullshit!
Like I say, Phantom Mary's pretty weird... Lives alone, lives way out in the middle of nowhere with a cat called Pajamas and a cow called Fred. Well, last week I got a call from Phantom Mary, which in itself was very strange...
Well... Phantom Mary's on my mother's side. Naturally no one there admits it because Phantom Mary's pretty weird... You want to hear the whole story?
Didn't I ever tell you about Phantom Mary?
It's okay. Hey, it's okay! Just a week. Just to see Phantom Mary.
Trip? What do you mean, Nick? You said you'd be --
Oh cards, maybe. Poker... It's getting cold, Sal. I'm going to take you in. We'll call Angela. The guys can help her bring you home... Did I tell you I was going on a trip?
But, Nick... Hey, I mean, where would a guy like Merle get money like this?
Merle gave me this?
I saw him last night. I thought I was dreaming. I thought I was out of my mind.
Merle? ... Merle's alive? How do you know?
It's Merle, Sal.
It's not socks, Sal.
Maybe you could use socks, Nick. Jesus, I mean, come to think of it socks are pretty expensive now.
Here. Behind you.
I tracked this one, a big buck. God, he was such a beauty--! What's this suitcase here?
You didn't get a deer?
Did you get one?
Did you go hunting.
I know. It's like coming from the moon. Or Mars.
Nick. I'm so scared. I'm so fuckin' scared to go home.
Sal, you're gonna die! You're gonna sit in that corner watching soaps and you're gonna die!... I'm not saying it's gonna be the same. It's not gonna be the same, but whatever it's gonna be we're all gonna do it, Sal. God damn it we are! We are gonna do it!
We do, Sal. We do... You're the heart.
Hey, Nick. How can you need me?
Sal, we need you. We need you.
I gotta get back, Nick.
Wait a minute. Sal. Hold it. John Wayne's making so much noise I can hardly --
Place is great. Really. One great place... Basketball, bowling. You name it. Canasta. Hearts. Lots of guys are making salad bowls. What I'll do is make a salad bowl for you, unless you'd rather have a pencil holder. The pencil holder's neat, I mean --
I'm gonna stay here, Nick.
John Wayne's great... Listen, Sal. Jesus. When are you getting out?
Listen, Nick --
Great. Hey. That's great.
John Wayne... Listen, Nick --
What's that noise?
What's that noise?
Same. Hey. Same old stuff.
Oh. You know. How's it with you?
Nick. Hey. How's things?
Sal? Sal, it's me, Nick.
See you Monday.
See you Monday.
That's my plan.
Great. That's great.
I'm gonna start slow... At the top. Then I'm gonna work down.
Just forget that. Forget what it says in the book.
Don't worry what it says in the book.
You guys are crazy. You know that? I mean you guys are really nuts.
As soon as you're hitched, Sal. First we get you hitched.
Not tonight?... You're not driving up tonight?
There's Albert! Hey, Albert!!!
I just... would like to say a few words... about Merle. I guess Merle always wanted something... I don't know... better. That fucking guy, he saved my Life. He saved Sal's... What Merle liked, he liked things right... But then there wasn't any place for that... that he could find.
Quiet!... Quiet!!!... Awright, everybody, Nick has a few words.
The fuck you didn't!... Gimme that!
The fuck I did!!!
You loaded it, Vince! I saw you!
What the hell was that! What did you think? Did you think it was loaded!
In the timeless words of Squire Albert...
Just like always! Just like it always was! Right, Nick? Am I right?
And I believed you! I oughta punch you out! I oughta...! Hey. Hey, let's go huntin'! Albert! Hey, Albert! Let's go huntin'. What do you say? Nick? What do you say?
You're full of shit!
They have these little sticks, Vince. They call them "chomp chomps", and when you get these girls going, you have to stick 'em in their mouths.
Six or eight. And they go wild?
One, Vince... you have to understand, doing it with one... would be... like nothing. They're small, see, so if you're smart you get about six or eight. I mean, if you want to have any fun.
Oh, Jesus! You're kiddin'!
Hey, Nick, you ever do it with one of those slants?
I mean, I guess you still think about Nam. Right? I mean --
Great. Feels great... Fuckin' A!
How's it feel, huh? How's it feel to be back?
What's it for??
What the hell's that for?
Cynthia! Hey, that's terrific. I mean... Great! That's really great!
Aw, it's a long story!
Well, who'd you get married to?
Same old thing. Hey, same like always. Nothing's changed. Albert is getting fat.
How're you guys... I mean, how've you guys been?
It's all right. Hey, it's all right. We'll be right here, right with you.
He's getting married... and we're nuts!
Up a little there... What would you say?
Down I would say... What would you say?
Up I would say... What would you say?
Wade did a little reminiscing.
Talk fast. Polls open in half an hour.
I want this bastard brought down.
Well, he's sure working fast ain't he?
This monster escaped from Cryo- Prison this morning.
Jesus. Sweet Jesus. We've got trouble.
That's him. Simon Doucet.
I can smell it.
No chance. Not their sector. They ain't even into things this big. Our zone-boy's performing out of a horror show. Something else. Unit nine found a couple cold ones in Hollywood. One Manny Turner. Gun runner. Sounds like a connection to me.
Witnesses say some wacko went Judge hunting with a late model. I got an artist working on a computer composite now.
What'cha got, Bennett?
Looks like ya gonna take office just in time, Chief. Things need straightening up in this city.
Mom, I hate to break this to you, but there's a whole other species out there you're neglecting. If you've forgotten, they're called 'men'. Sometimes referred to in more colorful language.
I think he wants more than your cookies.
He just wants me to make him cinnamon cookies like I made for you.
Mr. Murphy asked about you again at work yesterday.
I'd think about it.
What did you say?
Michael called yesterday. He wants to take Willy for the summer.
Put that on your political resume.
It was Wade's old partner... Gallagher. He was behind it all.
Prepare for a change in lifestyle.
I worked for him... still do. Said he'd make sure I was left alone if I helped put Wade away. He kept his promise for twenty years.
It was Wade's old partner... Gallagher. He was behind it all.
You helped set up my partner, Sergeant William Wade. I want to know who put you up to it.
Fuck you - fuck you.
No, you're not model material. Anything else?
I want to ask you a few questions.
Who are you? What the fuck do you want?
My man Dubbs.
Who is it?
You stole the heroin out of the evidence room and planted it on me. I was iced. What better way to keep me from talking. Stop me if I'm wrong.
I don't want to hear anymore.
<u>You</u> were the dirty cop... and I was on to you. You panicked. Afraid I was going to expose you... so you shut me up.
You were planning to send me back to the ice house. You set me up.
What are you talking about?
That wasn't your plan, was it?
I heard about today. Good job. I'm all for capital punishment. Why don't you go home and see your family?
We have to talk.
What is it? I'm about to go on.
You can't win like this. You'll only get older. This is what you wanted!
I'm wasting time.
Just got the call. Took him from school. Bastard nailed the Vice- Principal and a teacher.
Got compliments coming outta your ass, don't ya?
Don't threaten me. I tend to take these things seriously. And get a couple hours sleep. You look like day old shit.
Remember my promise.
This is a war, Wade. You against him. Vengeance time. The City's just in the way. Kill the fucker. You and me. We'll work things out when the time is right.
And I want Doucet.
I want to stop aging.
Ah, fuck you, Wade. This is bull- shit. You're not going to kill me. You're not going to risk your freedom.
I'm not voting for you.
You can't kill me. I'm going to be Mayor tomorrow.
I'll be alright.
Tell Frick and Frack that means them too.
Out of the room.
I've been alone for twenty years. I don't feel very sociable.
You're working a partner on this.
I'm going to kill you when this is all over.
The faster you get Doucet, the younger you'll be.
When you bring in Doucet.
Give it to me.
We have an antidote that'll retard the aging process.
You son-of-a-bitch. How do you stop it?
No, but he's going to be by tomorrow. He's aging. 'Bout the entire twenty years lost while being frozen in forty-eight hours. In that time he'll be an old man. Could be a year, an hour, or all at once. Called NPA Syndrome. Natural Pro- gression of Aging. It affects each individual differently. I'm sure it's painful.
He's not that old yet. You've lost confidence in me.
Edicon system made these. Ages, photographs. We use it to find missing children.
I remember what he looks like. I can't forget.
Fill it out. Standard issue mal- practice insurance. All Cops carry it.
I'm going to bring this down hard. I've got an A-1 badass killer loose, an election day after tomorrow, and I'm risking everything on you. You're going to bring him in. I don't care how. If you do, you'll get your freedom. An official pardon from me. A clean slate. A good job. A chance to get back with your family. If you don't want to, I'll put your ass back in the freezer so fast, you'll forget you were ever defrosted.
I told you. I'm out of the cops and robbers business. Retired twenty years ago. I've been trained as a bus driver. Got a whole route planned and everything. Even nailed down the lingo - '<u>Exact change, please</u>'.
Later. I want Doucet first.
I want to see my wife and kid.
Well, you've just been taken off the bench.
I'm not on the force anymore.
Jury found you guilty, not me. I just called it as I saw it. Fuck that. You were brought here for a reason. Doucet's escaped. Re-animated for his parole hearing. Killed a lot of people. Most of them cops.
I was set up and you know it... but you swore under oath I was dirty. You helped bury me.
Twenty years have passed, Wade. Lay it to rest.
Shucks, and I got all dressed up.
Maybe re-animating you wasn't such a bright idea. You look like shit.
Looks like you did more than jackoff while I was gone.
You want evidence. I'll give you evidence.
You have no evidence. Arrest this man.
What the hell are you talking about?
Sir, your transmission's fading.
I'm thrilled beyond belief.
But sir, Sergeant Wade saved the hostages.
You two fucks listen up. Doucet's killing people and you're wasting valuable time busting two-bit Technothugs.
Forget it. Stick to the program.
We seem to've come across a 211, sir.
Doucet's just offed two of the jurors who put him away. I'm rounding up the rest of them and putting them in police custody. What's your status?
Simon Doucet. You are under arrest. Please come out with your hands in the air.
Kill him... kill him.
He could be brought back.
Wade's in Cryo-Prison.
I was part of the escort team that re-animated him. My partner's dead because of this guy.
That's not your zone. Stick to data entry.
I don't want any press on this. I've got an election to win day after to- morrow.
NPA syndrome will hit 'im fast. Have your men gear up the Edicon system at a twenty-year ratio in fractions of fives. Saying a prayer won't be bad either.
Tell Doucet that. What was his rehabilitation training?
It's a real mess down here. Some- thing must a'gone wrong. No man could possess that kind of strength after being frozen for twenty years.
What do you mean he's escaped?! They're not supposed to escape!
Shut up! Drop it.
Keep 'em busy.
Okay, that's all folks. Commissioner Gallagher has to go.
How do I look?
Kill me if you want. Hard line me with that 'I ain't got nothing to lose' bullshit. But you've got plenty to lose 'partner'. You've got a family. I'm giving you a chance to see them. I kept in touch. She never married. All these years. Maybe she loves you. I wouldn't know why.
Sir, your limo's here.
I've also drafted a letter to families of officers killed in the line of duty. They'll need your signature.
Sir, your dinner with the union leaders begins in an hour. Your wife will meet you there, so we can leave whenever you're ready.
Ooops, I forgot.
Not the 'T' word.
Maybe I should put on the training whe---
Go in the house.
Ah Mom, you're embarrass'n me.
You sure? I can help you.
I got it. I got it.
And you should be with your family.
You should be in hospital.
No you don't.
No. I want to be with you.
I'm signing off.
You be careful.
He's got my grandson, Sanchez.
I just heard.
If you were set up, I want to find out who did it.
What are you doing this for, Sanchez?
What is it? Your legs? Hands?
Aaah... Mother of Jesus.
That's just it. He never did time. Seems each arrest was botched for one reason or another. Judge threw out the cases each time. Either he's got a horseshoe up his ass or powerful friends.
So, he's got a thing for prison clothes.
This should make your day. The guy who testified against you... Dubbs... was arrested a total number of twenty- four times.
...Have you been drinking?
Your girl. Being a cop will be rough on her.
...What are you talking about...?
You treat her nice.
We're partners, aren't we?
Not too good.
How do I look?
How ya feeling?
Rip Van Winkle.
<u>Comwatch Dispatch System</u>. Can't assimilate voice stress. Code priority only.
Get us some fuck'n back-up now!
Kid, you ever been in a high speed chase before?
Fire up that thing of yours and tell me all credit card trans- actions after eight o'clock.
Wallet, cash, I.D...
What else did he get?
Let's roll. We got a guy who swears his car was stolen by a suspect identical to Doucet. 0800 this morning.
You're not pregnant, are you?
No thank you, sir. Smoking causes lung cancer, heart disease, emphysema, and may complicate pregnancy.
You're just afraid to use this. You have technophobia, Wade. That's what you got.
With all this technology you don't even have to show up for work. Who needs cops when you've got gizmos.
I'm just doing it by the book. Analyze then vaporize. Crime's a science. Everything's analyzed.
Great. My partner's Marcus Welby.
Part of Doucet's cerebellum, a portion called the vermis is under- developed. This area rates response to outside stimuli. Com- pare it to that of a normal law- abiding citizen. It could be why he kills.
Lighten up. You're going to give yourself an ulcer.
Maybe I should turn myself in.
That cost me two weeks' pay.
Two lousy smokes. You're a real sport.
Then find me some cigarettes.
You want to be a good detective?
I'm serious, Wade. This case is important to me.
Hey, I'm eating.
We get to peek into Doucet's brain.
No. Talk English. Then I'll understand.
Never use it. Stuff'll kill ya.
I'll have a cup of coffee?
Good night, Wade.
I'll be okay.
You need anything else?
Hey, Rip Van Winkle, maybe we'd better call it a night.
This is where I found Doucet twenty years ago. Thought maybe he'd come back.
What's this place?
Yeah. Least I think so. Twenty- six years this March.
Engaged. Plan on doing it this summer. You still married?
Nothing makes sense when you're a cop.
It doesn't make sense. Who would want to do that to you?
'Bout the same time I busted Doucet I tried to nail this big-time dealer. I didn't have an ID, but I was close. Too close. Gained the confidence of a badass named Dubbs. He was going to turn me onto the big man. He made me for a cop. Mysteriously my fellow officers discovered ten pounds of heroin in my cruiser.
You're saying you were put away for a crime you didn't commit?
I was set up.
I also PVC'd you. Youngest Officer promoted to Sergeant. Two CMs. Four honor medals...
GCI. TM-1. What language are you talking?
Sir, I took the liberty of running a GCI scenario on a TM-1 earlier today...
You don't follow the bodies, and you don't follow procedure. You do it by instinct. Think like him. Do what has to be dane.
You can't catch this man with a computer.
NPA metamorphosis should biologically slow him down. That's when we'll get him.
Relax, let technology do the work.
Trust me. You don't want to know.
Give me a break. I'm serious. What's it like to be dead?
Then what goes on in there? What I mean is, what are you thinking about?
When you're frozen, you're legally dead, right?
Can I ask you something?
Thanks. Want'a bite? McDonald's vegiroll.
My insurance won't cover it.
I'm not fond of television comedies.
You can't turn him off. He's the Commissioner.
Well, I'm sure. You're a cop. I'm a cop. Let's do what cops do.
We don't know that for sure. We'll have to wait until they move.
There's no time. There are civilians in there. It's about to go down.
I'll inform dispatch.
Some things never change.
How do you know?
They're going to rob that bank.
See those guys?
Doucet killed my partner.
No offense, but why'd they partner me with a rookie?
Commissioner Gallagher said... ...twenty years is a long time.
I have to go home, Sanchez.
Lean year for role models.
Whoa. Don't touch that. <u>Pursuit</u> <u>Mode</u>. Auto pilot. Computerized steering and driving system used in high speed pursuits. Installed Fall 2006. Underground rumor has it they modeled it after you, sir.
Got it. Ejection seat?
You have to use the steering wheel to turn. The pedal for gas...
Does it drive itself, too?
Give me a break, Sanchez. It's like riding a bike.
Commissioner Gallagher gave me specific orders not to let you drive until you re-familiarize yourself with the process and territory.
Well, that's good enough for me.
Are you a cop?
Officer Hector Sanchez, Sergeant. Hillside Academy. Status G-8. Security Clearance 3. One year Advance Technical Crime Analyst. Weapons Assistant. FDA Junior Captain, Hollywood division---
You my partner?
Well I've got news for you. This dirty cop was the <u>only cop</u> who could bag Doucet.
They always are.
But he was such a good cop.
He went dirty and they made an example of him.
He had a partner. Our own Ray Gallagher. He tagged Wade dangerously defiant. Psychotic. Reckless. Seems our Commissioner didn't like him much. Busted his buns on a narcotic's violation. Wade was sentenced to twenty-five years.
Take a look at this.
You never want to find out.
What's it mean?
Says here one of our boys brought him down. You ever heard of a badge named Wade?
You startin' a fan club or some- thin'?
This is the guy that killed my partner.
Jesus, Sanchez... what do you think you're doin'? That's flatfoot data. You're not supposed to have access to that.
Remember, get the seat fixed.
Good to know you, Willy.
William Simpson. I like Willy.
What's your name?
I'm going to be a policeman.
My granddad was a policeman.
My mom says I'm gonna grow.
Seat's too high.
You all right?
I don't care if you've got the Good Housekeeping seal of approval... I'm not looking for company.
Papers. Last Medcheck two weeks ago. A-1. Disease free. Guaranteed by the State.
It's stuck, but thanks for the offer.
You could always take it off.
This little thing says I can't.
Funny. Would you like to buy me a drink?
Haven't seen you around. Where have you been all my life, handsome?
They are all friends of mine -- from over the mountain. Welcome! Help yourselves to drinks! Glad you could come! Have a good time.
Who are these people?
They're just outsiders. They want to see how fine Jabez Stone lives these days. They're waiting for your guests, too --
What are those people doing there? What do they want?
Oh -- Didn't mean to talk like that in front of a lady. Get some wine for the Squire, Belle.
Jabez! Careful --
Hey, you! Watch out there -- you're scuffing my Brussels carpet -- Consarn them.
The -- folks or people, what's the difference among friends?
The people, Jabez -- the people.
Of course I will.
We'll cook 'em ourselves. You'll help me, Belle.
We will --
Golly, Belle, that was a good idea -- we should do that every morning.
No, Jabez -- your place is with your wife --
Let's dance together -- Belle.
No -- that's for me to do.
I'll take it.
From over the mountain --
Belle Dee. I'm from over the mountain.
That's my problem, Belle.
You think you're so smart, Mrs. Stone. You wanted to be near Jabez. It looked like your big chance tonight, but you're wrong, you can't win him back -- not that way.
I know -- and you could show me the door. You would, too, if you weren't still hoping the guests might arrive.
You know that you're in my house.
Lying to you -- Why should I?
I see why you're here -- you knew that nobody was coming.
He lied to me again.
That's my business. -- Now, it's all right, Daniel. What did he do?
Thank you, Belle --
No, thank you -- what's your name?
You're not resting well, are you? I know -- it's that music. You need your sleep. Is there anything else you want?
I've brought you something to keep you warm, Mrs. Stone --
Jabez -- ?
No, siree, it didn't. And it won't -- no matter what happens -- just as long as the folks at the fair believe in freedom and Union. So -- Giddyap, Constitution -- and let's keep going, Mr. Stone.
But it didn't stop. I know it didn't stop. Granny told me it didn't.
You're wrong, Mr. Stone. There are people who live and die without e'er seeing it. They can't see the country for the money in their pockets -- And some think their state's the country, or the way they live is the country, and they're willing to split the country because of that. Well, I hope you'll meet all those, when you're grown. You'll meet the fire-eaters and the Circassian beauties -- that's part of the fair, to be sure. But if we'd had to depend on them, in a permanent way, the country would have stopped at the Allegheny mountains.
Anybody can see that.
Well -- it's high and it's wide and it goes a long way and there is a wind blowing through it and a blue roof over it -- it's the hills up here and the rivers running south and the new States growing in the West.
What's that, sir?
Maybe you can, sometime, Daniel. I'm a farmer, you know, and like to show my farm -- but the thing I'd like to show you most, you'll have to see for yourself.
Golly -- I'd like to see all your horses!
No, Daniel -- they are not race horses. They are good old friends of mine. I call 'em Constitution and Bill of Rights, the most dependable pair for long journeys. I've got one called Missouri Compromise, too, and then there's a Supreme Court -- fine, dignified horse, though you do have to push him now and then.
Make them go faster, Mr.... ?
It does hurt! And don't you do it again.
Why? It don't hurt.
Daniel! Don't ever let me catch you doing that again!
And serve him right!
Well, I thought he'd come in the middle.
And what about Daniel Webster?
I think I'd like to begin with the fire-eater --
A varied list of attractions. And which would you like to see first, Dan'l?
'N Daniel Webster will be there.
Young man -- you got me there.
And two unpara-- unparalleled Cir-cass-ian beauties? What is that?
Guess there will, if it says so.
No -- but I can hardly wait -- Mister -- tell me, will there really be -- -- a man that eats fire?
It hasn't opened yet?
Gee -- that Fair --
All right, Daniel. Jump in.
Well, I wouldn't mind. But my name's Daniel Stone.
Hello, Colonel! Want a lift?
All right, darling.
I don't want to be up there all alone, Mama.... I want to be with you.
Daniel! ... You must go to sleep.
No, no, I don't want to go to bed. I want to be here for the party.
Daniel, you ought to be in bed.
Daniel! ... I've stood just about as much as I can bear!
No! No! I won't.
Daniel give me that beanshooter!
It's mine, Ma! Pa made it for me -- and I'm not going to give it to anyone!
Yes, you did, Daniel! I saw it from the window. And then to lie about it! Give me that beanshooter, Daniel!
I see you! Riding pretty high, ain't you? Look out you don't fall off.
Grandma, look at me!
I did not, Grandma.
Lan's to goodness, what happened to that hen? Did you use that beanshooter again?
That's just too bad --
But I like the new one better.
Move? -- We are not going to move -- the old one is good enough for us.
Granny, when do we move to the new house?
Now don't you worry about that. You just leave it all to me. We won't talk business now ... just bear this in mind ... I'm not the man to get rich on other people's hard luck.... No, sir... not me! ...
Say ... about the interest ...
Thanks, Jabez -- I really wouldn't need very much ... if you could let me have some seed to start off with enough for spring planting ...
Not at all, Hank ... not at all. Glad to help you.
Don't I? ... Say, that's mighty white of you, Jabez.
Oh -- you don't have to go to Miser Stevens while I'm around.
Yes, but what does a farmer do if he don't want to get roped in some more by them loan sharks?
I don't know -- don't seem much of an idea to me.
Well -- here's how it is ...Tom Sharp, Eli Higgins and a couple of others been talking to me about -- that new sort of organization -- grange they call it. What you think about it?
Why, of course, Hank -- I've always got time for a neighbor. What's on your mind?
Kin you spare a moment for me Jabez?
We'll be mighty glad to have you with us.
Why, thank you, Tom. I was going to ask you if you thought I could.
Jabez -- will you join our Grange now?
I'll look out for myself! ... Now go away -- leave me alone.
Well -- we don't mean to force you, Jabez Stone -- but -- it's only for your own good.
That farmers' association -- we were talking about the other day.
Howdy, Mr. Stone. We've come round to ask you if you made up your mind to join the Grange?
What do you want?
Why not! There's a bill up in Congress to give us a uniform law of bankruptcy. Daniel Webster is fighting for it right now--
I am just thinkin' -- now they mightn't like the idea down in Washington.
That's fair enough, Jabez. Man's got a right to mull things over. We'll drive round again, week or so.
Sure does. But I'll have to sleep on it a couple of nights.
Yes, it's the debt and the lien and the mortgage that eats up the farmer!
Are you one of old Stevens' customers too?
Too bad it didn't happen to Miser Stevens.
Loan shark -- hey?
Never mind. What's your name?
But she is -- I've taken her place. Don't you remember -- you wrote me a letter. Mrs. Stone was too ill.
She couldn't be gone!
No. She's gone.
You're not -- Dorothy.
Stevens -- what's all this leading up to? You know something. Come on! Out with it -- you know something about me!
I do -- and I think you should too.
Huh? -- What's that? Well -- what about it? Who cares, anyhow?
What if one hasn't a soul any more? What of that?
All right -- so it's buried with you!
Don't say that -- I know it is --
Why do you fret about something that isn't there?
But what becomes of our souls?
Are you plumb crazy, man! What do you think happens? We're buried -- that's all.
-- of what happens after we die!
Afraid ... of what?
You are afraid!
What's the matter with you?
Well -- it seems to me -- I remember when you paid me--
Almost seven. No -- no, he's not seven yet I am sure --
What a fine boy you have, Jabez. How old is he now?
Now run along, Daniel.
I dunno -- I can't figure it out. I've invited them all. Why don't they come?
No, you're not.
Good evening -- I'm sorry, Jabez -- I'm a little late.
Some other time, Stevens.
Yes, I wanted to get here before the others.... I want to talk to you alone.
Hello, Stevens ... you're early today.
Mornin', Jabez ...
Doesn't satisfy, eh? Well -- that's too bad....
Real! Sheriff, you are a witness that this money is paid me voluntarily, and while it does not satisfy the mortgage, it has become my property.
You know -- some folks are just lucky. Others pick gold right out of the air. Like that!
I'd like to know where you'd get it....
-- in gold.
I barely managed to scrape up a bit for you. I thought if I made a kind of part payment --
Well, Stone -- have you got the money?
Gentlemen, the prosecution rests.
You know darn well it is.
But, Mr. Stone, I am hardly to blame for the pricking of your wholly unnecessary conscience. Is this your signature?
Yes -- yes, I am the richest man -- too rich. I can't think of anything but money. That's the trouble with me.
That is highly irrelevant to this case, Your Honor.
Yes, I did -- but you tricked me into signing it! You told me my soul was nothing ... that I could forget all about a soul, in exchange for money. That was a lie, a lie, a lie.
Jabez Stone -- did you or did you not sign this document?
Are you willing to give me your son in exchange for an extension of our contract?
Well now, Mr. Stone, did you make up your mind?
Come, come, Mr. Stone, you are a little upset. It's not fair to bargain with you now. -- I'll give you until midnight, Mr. Stone, but not one minute more. Ah, then you'll come with me indeed.
No! No! No! Not him -- not my son -- I'd rather go with you -- right now.
I'm afraid that's hardly the sort of security I was thinking of -- You see -- there is that promising little fellow, your son ...
Anything -- anything. -- You can have it all back -- that money -- the new house -- my farm -- the whole caboodle!
Suddenly you seem quite desperate, Mr. Stone -- -- You know I'm a good-natured man. I'm always open to reason. With a little security -- I might--
Not now! Not now! -- Let me make up -- let me make up.
Oh no, you violated clause five of our contract and I could collect right now, if I chose.
I have still a year -- a year to make up for everything.
What a headstrong fellow! Well -- I guess you're quite prepared to suffer the consequences.
I'm through with you.
Trying to break our contract again, Mr. Stone?
My time isn't up yet.
Small? Oh, I see what you mean. Why, they vary. Now a man like Daniel Webster, if I ever get hold of him, I'd have to build a special box for him and even at that, I imagine, the wing spread would be astonishing. In your case --
Are they all as -- small -- as that?
He was --
He ain't dead -- he's dancing in there.
.... Miser Stevens' soul, Mr. Stone. Yes -- I am sorry for the disturbance.
Just a minute, neighbor Stone. I promised you money and all that money can buy. I don't recall any other obligations. But let's look at the contract.
You promised me prosperity, happiness, love, money, friendship --
Why, Mr. Stone, you look so worried. Can I be of any service?
Oh, certainly. I shan't even come to the christening -- it would be tactless and in wretched bad taste. But I may send a friend of mine -- just for old sake's sake. Yes, I might do that.
Leave your tongue off of that!
But you should, now that you are becoming a father.
I don't care.
Oh come, Neighbor Stone. I wouldn't cut that tree if I were you. It means a breach of contract.
Look here now--
Good evening, Neighbor Stone.
1840. Well, that'll take us to the seventh day of April in 1847.
The seventh day of April --
Yes, indeed. But not now. Not for seven years. Oh, I almost forgot -- what is the date?
Well, I'll be --
Excellent. A firm, fair signature. One that will last till doomsday. My dear Neighbor Stone, I congratulate you! You're going to be the richest man in New Hampshire!
A pin, Neighbor Stone! I'm afraid, you'll have to prick your finger -- but what's a little pain to a lucky man?
No, no! Give it to me!
Well, why should that worry you. A soul -- a soul is nothing. Can you see it, smell it, touch it? -- No! -- Think of it -- this soul -- your soul -- a nothing, against seven whole years of good luck! You will have money and all that money can buy. Upon my word, Neighbor Stone, if it weren't for my firm's reputation for generous dealing--
What does it mean here -- about my soul?
That's right, Mr. Stone -- there is -- -- just one little formality. I'd like your signature here -- see. And when it's done -- it's done for seven years. It's our usual form. Of course -- we may be able to take up the question of a renewal in due time.
Yes, of course, people forgot -- or the men who knew about it died, you know how these things happen.
Yes, why shouldn't it?
Oh, you know the old story -- the Hessian wagon train that was ambushed on the way to Saratoga. Some of the gold has been buried under your barn!
Where did it come from?
A clever man like yourself -- he can find money anywhere. Money to pay his bills -- money for his wife and his children -- money to be a rich man. All he needs is a friend to point it out to him. Like that!
Well, now, Mister, that sounds all right. But--
Of course. Why man, you have one of the richest farms in the county. You just go about it the wrong way -- so many men do. Hard work -- well, that's all right for people who don't know how to do anything else. It's all right for people who aren't lucky -- but once you're lucky -- you don't work for other people. You make them work for you.
You've had a lot of bad luck these days. And yet -- it's all so unnecessary. When I think of your opportunities --
You can't say that to me! I'm New Hampshire. If I say I called you, I did. I guess I did.
Do you deny that you called me? I've known people in other States who went back on their word. But I didn't expect it in New Hampshire.
Breakfast ... Ah! ... Come along friends, Ma Stone's a cook this side of heaven.
Ma says breakfast's ready, Mr. Webster!
I know -- that was mighty queer Medford -- knew it the minute I tasted it. But it takes more than that to down Daniel Webster.
Well, I --
You were worried, Jabez, weren't you?
Oh, come, man, come. Just because you've sold your soul to the devil that needn't make you a teetotaler.
There's no joy in it for me.
There's nothing like it. I saw an inchworm take a drop of it once, and he stood right up on his hind legs and bit a bee. Come -- try a nip!
Then I'll just christen the jug, with your permission, Stone. Somehow or other, waiting's wonderfully shorter with a jug.
Not long -- now.
They make plucky women in New England. H'm ... how long have we to wait?
Yes -- at midnight.
I see. And this is where he'd like to collect, too.
Yes, Mr. Webster -- it was here where it all began.
It's here you said that you closed the deal with him?
It's your fault! You brought Daniel Webster here -- just to try to make a fool of me! You played the sneak behind my back -- made up all sorts of lies against me! You can get yourself out of my home -- go back to the other house -- that old place, where you belong -- I don't want to -- to talk to you again!
No -- you haven't time -- You haven't time for your mother, or your wife, or your child.
I -- I don't know what you're talking about! I -- I haven't time to listen to all this --
I'm sorry you can't see that, I know you could once -- you made a little speech once, that I'll always remember and I know the others do too -- They remember and they see how you have changed. That's why they didn't want to come tonight to you, Jabez -- you're as blind as a Burma bat, with your gold pot! Mind you, it's not the money, I've been talking about, it's what you make of it.
They'd have a good neighbor, Jabez -- and that's worth much more than anything else -- much, much more!
Contracts? -- Yes, they have contracts with me -- lots of 'em -- but -- but that's all right. Without me and my money, they wouldn't have anything.
You, Jabez Stone -- you and a lot of poor farmers, hereabouts -- good men of the earth who are in trouble because of you. Or -- am I wrong about those contracts, Mr. Stone?
What -- what's on your mind?
That's just fine, Neighbor Stone -- but -- I have to be pretty careful of my seats of honor -- where I sit, I mean. You see, the whole country sort of has its eye on me, Jabez -- anybody in public life has that difficulty -- even you, Jabez. They watch us carefully, our neighbors and our enemies, and they see much more than we think they do -- and understand much more. My friends all like to think that I've got the good of mankind always at heart, and I've got to make sure that those I deal with have the good of mankind always at heart, too. Do you know what I'm talking about, Jabez?
Well -- Mr. Webster! This is a great day for me. Come on in, sir. I want you to take the seat of honor and meet all my guests!
Well -- I'll be -- if it isn't little Mary Sampson from Franklin.
Mr. Webster -- I'd like you to meet my wife, Mary.
Eloquent speech, Neighbor Stone -- couldn't have done better myself -- -- under the circumstances. Thank you.
Thanks, Mr. Webster! To the champion of the whole United States -- Dan'l Webster!
Here's a man who knows what's good for Dan'l Webster! Medford rum! Ah, a breath of the Promised Land! To the champion of the Iron Horseshoe, Jabez Stone!
Not at all, lad -- not at all. For a good game of horseshoes I would always sacrifice fame and acclaim.
Seems like it's my fault, Mr. Webster.
I don't seem to be so very popular after all -- in Cross Corners.
Thank you, Mr. Webster.
You win. Will you ride to the village with me, Mr. Stone?
Ten throws it is.
Ten throws -- Mr. Webster?
5000 -- that's just what I owe you.
Why not -- ?
Oh yes -- I am -- want to bet?
You are not so sure that he'll come.
That's fine. Now you can tell people all about the house, but don't mention Webster.
Well -- yes --
Now, Squire, you're not going to let me down. We still want to do a lot of business together, don't we?
You mean that's all you had me come out here for?
Yes siree -- that's the idea. Get them all here and then say: "Look, folks -- here's Daniel Webster, my guest of honor." Golly, I can see their eyes pop already.
You want me to go around --
You keep that -- that's for you. I want you to talk up the party to make sure that the best folks really come.
You think that's a joke? I had him on there too, but I was afraid Dan'l Webster might feel insulted.
The only one you missed -- is the President.
Now look -- here's a list of the people I invited -- they're all the right kind of people -- or did I miss anybody?
Yes -- and that's the reason I wanted to talk with you. You got my invitation?
Dan'l Webster is coming to my party.
Why of course --
Oh yes -- yes. Won't take a minute. Can you keep a secret?
Well, Jabez -- I'm a little pressed for time. You wanted to discuss something -- some business --
You really think so?
How do you do, Belle? How are you, Jabez? Well -- mighty elegant house you got here.
Howdy, Squire! Howdy! Oh -- how do you do, Squire.
Well? Don't a politician have to be?
But -- I was just lucky.
Selectman? Selectman of the village? Me?
And so, Jabez Stone, in the name of the Whig Party of Cross Corners, we offer you the nomination of that party for Selectman.
Worst I had in years -- ahem -- starting a spring cold, I guess -- er -- don't happen to have a bit of camomile tea in the house, do you, Stone?
Headache -- Squire?
Ahem -- Neighbor Stone, we want--
Mighty good of you to come out, Squire -- sparing all this time to -- Sheriff, too -- and Schoolmaster -- mighty nice.
Come right into the parlor, won't you, folks.
Ahem -- we want to have a little confidential talk with you, Neighbor Stone. Don't like to take a man away from his planting -- but sometimes --
Why -- good morning, Squire.
Coming along, Jabez?
Jabez -- Jabez!
All right, Jabez ...
You must go now, Mary -- you must!
Oh, Jabez! ... Did you hear, Mr. Webster? -- Now you'll help him, won't you?
Mary! Come back ...
Mr. Webster ... Wait! ... Mary!
What's the matter with 'em? Why don't they come?
It's -- different, Jabez -- that's all.
Think this room is larger than anything Webster's got at Marshfield? You've been there. What about it, Mary?
I don't know, Jabez.
Why don't they come --
Oh, for heaven's sake, leave me alone!
Well -- I am worried about the way you've changed. That was one thing you said you'd never do -- remember?
It shows on your face.
But Jabez, I never said that!
He's my son and I like him the way he is. Why do you always have to pick on him? If it's not the boy it's me. You don't like the way I live -- you don't like my friends, or my new house -- or anything.
My fault? ... Oh, Jabez -- all I want is to be proud of him. He can be such a fine boy, if we show him how to be.
Isn't that your own fault?
Jabez -- how can you let her talk like that when the boy is present? He won't respect me any more.
You're not supposed to punish my son, Mary.
I am going to lock him up.
What happened.... Where are you taking him?
Nothing, Jabez -- just natural for a baby to cry, sometimes. Shh, little Daniel -- sleep -- sleep --
What in sugar hill's the matter with him?
Potato bug sits on the leaf in the sun, Sleep, sleep, my baby -- Raccoon sits in the spruce all night, Sleep, baby, sleep --
Don't be cross with him, Ma. This don't happen every day.
Well -- I -- I-
Hello, Jabez -- Here's your son.
Mary -- but look -- it didn't touch an ear of my corn -- we'll have a rich harvest.
Ruined -- all the fields -- ruined.
I wasn't used to being big -- wasn't used to thinking in big ways. Now, I've made up my mind.
Jabez -- once you said we'd never change --
And I don't want to have a washwoman for a wife.
No, no. I don't want to be idle.
Well -- that's the last time -- we'll have servants to do it.
But Jabez -- the washing has to be done --
But it's not very becoming to you to have your hands in the suds -- when the Squire and his wife --
It's very becoming to you, Mr. Selectman.
Yes, Mr. Selectman!
That's one thing I want to talk to you about, Mary.
I'll never get my washing done.
You could have knocked me down with a feather -- Selectman -- me.
Oh -- Jabez.
Mary! I'm -- Selectman of Cross Corners!
I'll get it, Jabez.
Mary, get three cups of camomile tea for the Squire and the rest. They all feel colds coming on.
Don't take cold, Jabez. Come -- it's warm in here.
Yes -- you are right, Mary. I can almost hear the little blades of grass a-starting up -- All the seeds a-stirring underneath the ground --
There's hope and promise in it, Jabez -- Planting and promise of good harvest to come.
Mary -- you just wait and see -- It's all -- just the beginning -- just the beginning -- of everything. I'll be the biggest man in New Hampshire and you'll be the wife of the biggest man.
You'll never change -- will you?
There is nothing to worry about now.
But I'm glad to be home again --
Oh, Jabez -- it was a wonderful day --
Remember, Mary, how he said it: "Couldn't have done better myself, Jabez Stone," and it was my first speech. I don't know what came into me, Mary. I just stood up and the words came flowing like water out of my mouth.
Yes, Mary. It's been a long day.
We must go on home, Jabez.
Looks right elegant, Mary.
What do you think of that, Jabez?
I'd love to.
Will you come into town with me tomorrow?
It feels fine now, Jabez.
Mary -- look! Hessian gold. I found it in the barn.
Well -- I -- I don't know -- I would pay our debts and well -- maybe get a new bonnet, but -- really -- I think I would live the same.
Mary -- what would you do?
Mary -- what would you do with a pot o' gold?
No, Jabez -- all I need is some rest -- You go and pay our debt. Everything'll be all right then ... everything.
I'll get the doctor.
Mary -- how do you feel?
You're right, Mary it's a fine calf. That's why Stevens'll take it for the rest of the payment.
Oh Jabez! And we were counting on ... It's a lovely calf.
Seed alone won't do, Mary. We have to throw the calf in.
I will, Mary -- always thought a man could be stronger alone -- seems I've been wrong about that.
Jabez -- you ought to talk to Tom about joining the Grange.
Mary, I'm a farmer -- always will be. To me seed isn't a thing to pay debts with, it's alive, more alive than anything -- but I guess you're right. We just got to do it. Oh -- how's it all going to end?
You always said, the field uphill needs a rest, but if you think --
To save us work on the spring plowing?
Jabez! Couldn't you take a sack of seed instead?
If the pig hadn't broke his leg, we could have taken him.
It's all right, Jabez. We'll find something to pay Stevens.
Yes -- I had to pay the vet in full. He just wouldn't have treated the horse this time. After all, we can't very well do without a horse.
Not all of it?
Mary -- it's gone.
Do you think I'm grudging it?
Your butter money?
We can still use my butter money.
Well -- what are we going to do?
If it would only move old Miser Stevens -- We've still got to pay him.
That's wonderful language. It would move a stone.
" ... and if the final vote shall leave thousands of our fellow citizens and their families in hopeless distress, can we -- members of the Government -- go to our beds with a clear conscience, can we, without self- reproach, supplicate the Almighty Mercy to forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors?
It's Tom Sharp and two other fellers -- Oh, glory -- where's my pants?
Who is it?
Well, I'll be -- there's a rig, turning in, by the gate.
Hold the splint tighter -- it's almost done. Go on reading, Ma. This man, Job, he had troubles, didn't he?
He's stubborn as a Stone.
That's what we said.
Jabez, don't you remember your own wedding? We said it's for better or worse. We said it's for richer or poorer.
I remember Dad used to say sometimes, when they were handing out hard luck, the farmers got there first.
I think his leg is broken.
You're right, Mary.
Now, Jabez! I've got on my Sunday bonnet and I'm going to church with my husband. Almost the first time since the beginning of winter -- and if that isn't an occasion, I don't know what is.
What is that smile on your face? Is there anything wrong with me?
All right -- only he needn't dirty my pants!
He only wants you to throw the stick for him, Jabez. I guess he's feeling the spring a-coming, too.
Down, Shep! Down!
Jabez -- help!
Of course it's all right, son. You had Daniel Webster, didn't ye? Breakfast's ready! I've made a special surprise for Mr. Webster.
Ma -- Ma -- it's all right, Ma!
Gone with Daniel Webster -- to Marshfield, son.... You told Mary to go--
Ma! ... Where's Mary ... and little Dan'l?
My son ... what's the matter?
And I say she won't! I'll not have the scorn of God on this place -- with the smell of fish in it, polluting up the Sabbath! And as for you -- let me tell you, young woman...!
I want you to fix these fish!
You go down and see what's keeping Dorothy.
Fiddlesticks! She don't hear it. Got better music to listen to than that. There -- that's what I mean.
Golly, Ma -- Consarn that music! Shouldn't a-had the harvest festival tonight.
You'll be a father any minute now.
Ma -- is she? --
Make out? We'll do better than that! I never thought I'd be glad for bad luck, but I am. I never thought I'd be glad of a hail storm at harvest time, but I am! Oh, bless ye the works of the Lord in the hail and the storm and the rain!
Now that's the way to talk, Son! I know you worked hard for that crop. But we'll make out.
I say -- it don't matter.
What's that you say, Son?
It don't matter!
Oh, here you are, Jabez. Lan's, I was worried about you.... Hail in August! The crops will be ruined!
A man can always change things, Son. That's what makes him different from barnyard critters.
Ma -- and yet, a man could change that, couldn't he?
You see, son? I'm old and I've lived. When a man gets his money in bad ways -- when he sees the better course and takes the worse -- then the devil is in his heart -- and that fixes him.
Wouldn't profit him none.
I know, Ma, but -- Suppose a man got his money in bad ways --
Why, that's just sense, Son. Now a man like Daniel Webster -- guess they pay him high for what he does. But he's worth it -- and he helps others. Makes all the difference.
Do you really think that?
I figure that depends a mite on how you get it and how you spend it, Son.
Money -- money's a funny thing, ain't it, Ma?
Me -- a son.
Lan's, I'd think you was having the baby, to hear you.
I feel -- fidgety, Ma -- not right at all.
Well, thank the Lord you can always depend on New England for weather. We've got enough for the whole United States.
Queer sort of weather we're having -- queer like everything else.
Oh, go along with you! As if it mattered to a grandma! But p'raps you got an even chance.
My son! Do you really think, Ma....
It won't be the first baby ever born in this house. There! Made me drop a stitch! Sit down, you make me nervous! Lan's, that's the way a man always is. Thinks his son's the most important thing in the world.
Now look here, Ma. I'm not a boy anymore. I want that understood. I don't aim to stay a one-horse farmer the rest of my life. Mary's got to be the kind of wife a -- a big man needs --
Well, son, I'm glad to see a Stone come up in the world again.
Say, Mary, how is your shoulder?
Well -- that's comforting! Supper.
But it's true. Take 'em up in your hands, Mary -- feel 'em -- they're real all right. Aren't you glad?
Most outlandish thing I ever heard tell. Don't seem right, somehow!
Yes -- I was getting the seed -- I stumbled -- I saw one of the boards warped up a bit -- and -- there it was.
You found it in the barn, hey?
I can't help it. I mean it, I tell you. I've had more than my share. Nothing ever goes right for me -- nothing!
Hush up such talk, Jabez!
And why should I? Let him howl if it makes him feel good. Consarn it. He's better off than I am! I wish I could tell Him... ... up there, just what I think.
Well ... make him keep quiet.
What's ailing that dog?
All right, son -- if it helps.
Helps sometimes to say it.
That's a word you're too free with lately, Jabez, consarn this and consarn that ...
Yes -- and you figgered right, consarn it!
I just figgered -- knew you didn't have enough bills.
How'd you know to have the calf ready, Ma?
Not on the Sabbath you won't, Jabez!
There! Guess that ought to hold good. Put him down here, by the fire, Mary. But we don't want to get him too close -- we'll have roast pork for supper.
That's right, Ma -- we ain't licked yet. A Stone's never licked till he's dead -- that's what Dad used to say, didn't he, Ma?
Now, Jabez Stone -- as for what you're calling hard luck -- well, we made New England out of it. That and codfish.
Hard luck -- like me.
You know that, son.
Sorry, Ma -- but this consar-- this little pig -- He won't let me fix him --
Jabez! What kind of talk is that for the Sabbath? And me a-reading the holy word!
Consarn the consarn --
"There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job; and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and eschewed evil."
Belle, give the Sheriff a cup of rum.
Jabez -- seems like I've been hearing talk around. Reverend Harper thinks more Cross Corners folk oughter be in church, Sabbath morning.
Come in, Sheriff.
Very well, folks. I accept.
It seems such an obvious candidature to us all.
And you didn't get it, hey? Come on, we'll have another talk with him.
Hello, Jabez -- I was just talking to Stevens about a little extension on your payment.
The law is the law. Good-bye, Mary.
Let him try it.
Wish I could really do something for you. But you know Stevens. He'll throw you off your farm tomorrow if you don't pay him tonight.
It's all right, Sheriff.
Yep -- you can't get around that mortgage. -- I'm sorry, Jabez.
I won't forget.
Be sure to let me know if Daniel is over there.
Ah, fiddlesticks -- you are old enough to know what you are doing.
You aren't angry with me?
So you've made up your mind to go to the party.
I said you should stop worrying because I've made up my mind!
Worried about me! Well, you just stop it!
Me? Why, look here, Mary Stone -- I'm worried about you, that's all.
Now, Ma -- You just try to set an example for me, and keep hold of yourself.
Fox hunting -- a Stone going fox hunting on a week day -- and the earth crying out for the touch of him!
Jabez -- for the good of your soul ... please come with us.
She'll do nothing of the kind! She's going to church with me, right away!
Yes, Ma -- I'm ready --
Mary! Ready? First bell's a-ringing!
The new girl -- Jabez says; she is from over the mountain.
What a nice -- and kind girl -- Who is she --?
Yes, Mrs. Slossum told me -- Lucy can't even keep a secret -- Selectman -- my son -- well, who would have thought of that?
You know, Ma, why the Squire came to see Jabez?
H'm. Hessian gold. Well -- hope it'll do us more good than it did the Hessians.
I'll try hard -- I just can't take it all in.
Yes, Jabez -- don't worry.
Let her be, son. She'll do all right. You better get yourself straightened out.
Land sakes, I don't mind. I never did hold much with Job, even if he is Scripture. He took on too much to suit me. I don't want to malign the man, but he always sounded to me as if he came from Massachusetts. Yes, Mary, you go ahead and read.
That is -- if you don't mind changing the lesson, Ma.
I guess we won't.
Well, I guess we won't be going to church today.
Mary -- Jabez --
You throw mighty far, Jabez -- almost into the pigsty.
Yes, sir -- I guess I do -- Gee --
Of course. And you tell your father for me -- we may be on opposite sides of the fence, but I'm always glad to hear of a man who holds to his own opinions. As long as people do that -- the country's all right. Do you understand, Martin?
Gee, would you, Mr. Webster? Honest?
Well, Martin, I only wear them in Washington -- that's the trouble. But if you ever come down there, I'll show them to you.
Martin Van Buren Aldrich and my Pa's the only Democrat in Cross Corners. He said you had horns and a tall, Mr. Webster, but I ain't seen 'em yet.
What are you looking for, Colonel? What's your name?
She'll be here in a moment. She has a special surprise for you.
There is nothing like a good old country breakfast. Where's Ma?
I'll do my best, Mary.
Mr. Webster -- you will help him?
Mary -- what love and trust could do for your husband, you've done. And frankly, in a very few moments, this is going to be no place for a lady.
Are you, Mary? Well, I guess I'm glad myself -- seeing as how you feel this way. Party seems to be quite a success. Lots of guests, anyhow.
Oh -- Mr. Webster -- I'm so glad you came!
And now come on, Mary. I want to show you the all-fired biggest parsnips in the whole United States, raised right here in Marshfield -- of course!
Oh, could you, Mr. Webster ?
Mary -- you've talked to me as you might have talked to your father and I believe he wants me to help you a little. You see, sometimes we think we're licked in this life -- but we weren't put here to be licked. Don't you believe it. Sometimes the shadows seem to get hold of us -- the shadows and the evil -- but it is still up to us to fight. Now I was thinking before you came, of coming over to Cross Corners end of the month, to get acquainted with my Godson -- and other things.
You see, I don't care if we are rich or poor -- I don't care if we're big or small, all I care about is Jabez. He was the first man I loved. He never used to care about money -- we were poor as Job's turkey, but none of us minded. Now I've seen him drive the poor from the door, and we used to be poor ourselves. I've seen him get hard and mean, and he isn't hard or mean. I've heard him mock at the church bells -- the bells that rang for our wedding. That's not like him, Mr. Webster -- It must be my fault somehow -- my fault.
You don't have to defend him to me, Mary -- I've been called names myself.
Mr. Webster, you mustn't believe all that people say.
I've heard some odd things about Jabez lately -- he seems to make the wrong kind of name for himself.
Why -- yes -- it's hard to put it into words, Mr. Webster. There's this matter of little Daniel's schooling and the new house -- and well -- there's something else that's wrong -- it gets worse, year after year -- it's like a shadow growing -- I can't really talk about it, even to Ma -- she puts it all on Jabez and I won't stand for that.
Yes, you've chatted a lot, woman-like nibbling around the edge -- But, Mary, forgive an old lawyer's legal mind, I don't think you ever once came to the point. And there is a point, isn't there?
Goodness, Mr. Webster, I've done nothing but talk about that all through dinner.
No, you wouldn't -- You're not the sort of woman that's afraid of smoke -- or fire -- But now let's talk about your affairs.
Of course not --
Well -- she hardly ever comes here -- she's not the type of woman who cares to live in the country. Yes -- I'm all on my own -- sometimes it makes you feel a little lonely -- Do you mind if I indulge?
No, really, thank you. -- Is Mrs. Webster coming back soon?
Well Mary, it's too bad I didn't know -- I would have given you a real dinner, but with my wife being in Washington -- Have another piece of pie --
-- I'm going to try, Mr. Webster.
You've got a smart man, Mrs. Stone. Hang onto him.
Why, that's different! Well, boys, I guess we'll knock off. I've got to see a friend.
Just someone from New Hampshire!
If it's the British Minister, take him around to the pantry and give him some Madeira --
Someone to see you, Dan'l!
Hey there, Dan'l! Black Dan'l!
Why, you long-barreled, slab-sided, lantern- jawed, note-shaving crook, be off with you ...
My congratulations -- as between two gentlemen.
Your Honor -- gentlemen of the jury -- this case need not detain us long. It concerns one thing alone -- the transference, barter and sale of a certain piece of property, to wit, his soul by Jabez Stone. That transference, barter or sale is attested by a deed. I offer that deed in evidence and mark it Exhibit A.
I'll drink to that, Mr. Scratch!
The quick or the dead! You have said it. May -- the best man win, Mr. Webster!
Let it be the quick or the dead -- So it is an American judge and an American jury!
Very well. -- You shall have your trial, Mr. Webster. The case is hardly one for an ordinary jury --
I do! If I can't win this case with a jury, you shall have me, too. If two New Hampshire men aren't a match for the devil, we'd better give this country back to the Indians.
You mean -- a jury trial?
Then I stand on the Constitution! I demand a trial for my client.
And who with better right? When the first wrong was done to the first Indian, I was there. When the first slaver put out for the Congo, I stood on the deck. Am I not spoken of, still, in every church in New England? 'Tis true, the North claims me for a Southerner, and the South for a Northerner, but I am neither. To tell the truth, Mr. Webster, though I don't like to boast of it, my name is older in the country than yours.
Well, I never heard the dev-- of your claiming American citizenship.
Foreign? And who calls me a foreigner?
H'm. This appears -- I say appears -- to be properly drawn. But you shall not have this man! A man isn't property! Mr. Stone is an American citizen, and no American citizen may be forced into the service of a foreign prince.
There, Mr. Webster. All open and above-board and in due and legal form.
Not so fast, Mr. Scratch. Produce your evidence -- if you have it.
Your spirited efforts on behalf of your clients do you credit, Mr. Webster -- If you have no more arguments to adduce I'll take him along now.
Cup for cup!
Talk has never proved that question, Mr. Webster! Cup for cup -- what do you say?
There isn't enough Medford rum in the whole of New Hampshire to make me sleepy.
Oh .. not that you ever get drunk! No, indeed! But a kind of overpowering lassitude or, more plainly, a deep and enveloping sleep.
It even kicked back -- once at you, didn't it?
Why, certainly -- but be careful, Mr. Scratch -- Medford rum has an uncanny habit of kicking back, even with old-timers like yourself.
Scratch will do for the evening. May I -- join you?
Attorney of record for Jabez Stone. Might I ask your name?
Mr. Webster, I presume?
Pretty good -- that's perfect!
Say, that's pretty good, young man.
I'll be there, too!
I'd rather see you on the side of the opposition.
With the presidential election coming up, I thought I could be of some help, sir.
Oh -- it's you again. What do you want?
It's only a short drive, Mr. Webster.
Oh, that's what you want -- well, you can be perfectly honest with Jabez Stone -- now.
I can't be honest with them.
Why don't you?
No, no ... I want to talk to men ... to people in Cross Corners ...to my neighbors ...
You can talk to me ...
I want someone to talk to ...
The loneliness? Lonely with all your gold, Mister Stevens? That hardly makes sense.
That isn't it. It's ... the loneliness, Mr. Scratch ... the loneliness!
My money? Why, Mister Stevens? What a quaint idea. Come over to the door. I want to speak to you privately. Stop throwing away that money. We mustn't let people see any softness in you, Mister Stevens.... People take advantage of softness, you know. Come out of there -- I'll give you an extension if you'll forget this stupid repentance idea.
I wanted to give it all to the church.
Just remember that when you sign for the tip. They're paying for it, so don't be shy.
You're all right, Argyle.
I'll find someplace.
What is it don't work out that way? Where you gonna stay?
It's corny, but I could live with it.
So, you go on upstairs to the party, your lady sees you, you run into each other's arms. Music comes up, you live happily ever after, that it?
That is Christmas music.
How 'bout some Christmas music?
Mind if I play some tunes?
Like I said, Argyle...you're fast.
You mean you thought she wouldn't make it out here and she'd come crawling on back, so why bother to pack?
'Cause I'm a New York cop who used to be a New York kid, and I got six months backlog of New York scumbags I'm still trying to put behind bars. I don't just get up and move.
So, why didn't you come?
Closer to Japan. You're fast.
But meant her moving here.
She had a good job, it turned into a great career.
So, you divorced of what?
It's okay, it's okay.
Hey, I'm sorry. When I was a cabdriver, see, people expected a little chit chat, a little eccentricity and comaraderie, I forgot how stuck up you limo guys were, so excuse me.
You're nosey, you know that, Argyle?
Meanwhile, you still live in New York?
The past six months.
The girl was off today. Hey, I didn't expect you to sit up front. So, your lady live out here?
If your friend is hot to trot...I know a couple of mama bears. ...Or is he married?
That's okay. This is my first time riding in one.
Do I? I'm sorry. You're gonna have to help me, man. This is my first time driving a limo.
Argyle. Don't you take this stuff?
Argyle. I'm your limo driver. Hey, nice bag.
I'm John McClane.
We must shut down the building. Go wider --!
-- ten blocks? Are you crazy? It's Christmas Eve, thousands of people -- the Mayor'll scream bloody murder --
If he's not a terrorist, and he's not a hostage...he's just not part of the equation.
One of yours?
Not any more.
Dwayne Robinson, LAPD. I'm in charge here.
I'm Special Agent Johnson of the FBI. This is Agent Johnson...no relation.
Hey, I negotiate million dollar deals for breakfast. I can handle these clowns. I want to talk to Hans. Hans! Sprickenzie talk?
What are you going to do?
I'm tired of sitting here waiting to see who gets us killed first... them...or your husband. Hi there.
Where are you going?
Tell that to Mr. Takagi.
His 'job' is 3000 miles away. Without him, they might let us go...at least we have a chance...
How about his job?
John? Christ, he could fuck this whole thing up...what does he think he's doing?
They don't look happy...something's gone wrong.
John, how can you say that, after all these years--? John? John?
That asshole's not my friend! I barely know him! I hate his fucking guts -- -- Ellis, for Christ's sake, tell him you don't mean shit to me --
What am I, a method actor? Hans, babe, put away the gun. This is radio, not television...
Don't you think I know that! Put Hans on! Hans, listen to me, that shithead doesn't know what kind of scum you are, but I do --
John, I think you could get with the program a little. The police are here now. It's their problem. Tell these guys where the detonators are so no one else gets hurt. Hey, I'm putting my life on the line for you buddy...
Tell me about it.
Ellis...you shouldn't be doing this...
I told them we're old friends and you were my guest at the party.
Ellis, what have you told them?
John, they're giving me a few minutes to try and talk some sense into you. I know you think you're doing your job, and I can appreciate that, but you're just dragging this thing out. None of us gets out of here until these people can negotiate with the LA police, and they're just not gonna start doing that until you stop messing up the works.
The guy upstairs who's fucking things up? I can give him to you.
I must have missed 60 Minutes. What are you saying?
Hey, business is business. You use a gun, I use a fountain pen, what's the difference? To put it in my terms, you're here on a hostile takeover and you grab us for some greenmail but you didn't expect a poison pill was gonna be running around the building. Hans, baby...I'm your white knight.
You're amazing. You figured this all out already?
Hey, I read the papers, I watch 60 minutes, I say to myself, these guys are professionals, they're motivated, they're happening. They want something. Now, personally, I don't care about your politics. Maybe you're pissed at the Camel Jockeys, maybe it's the Hebes, Northern Ireland, that's none of my business. I figure, You're here to negotiate, am I right?
You're very perceptive.
What does he want?
Hope I'm not interrupting...?
I read about them in Time magazine. When these Revolutionary Brothers and Sisters are Free, the hostages in this building will be taken to the roof and they will accompany us in helicopters to the Los Angeles International Airport where you will be given further instructions. You have two hours to comply.
'Asian Dawn Movement?'
I don't want neutral...I want dead --
If you'd listened to me he would be neutralized already!
-- you wouldn't let me kill him when I had the chance --
He had the detonators! Theo? Theo!
He wasn't lying about Marco: He's thirty stories down on the street. The other man is Heinrich, and I found his body upstairs. And his bag is missing.
Karl, I know you want him, but the police are probably on their way. Maybe we can convince them it was all a mistake, but not if they hear gunshots! If you lock him in he'll be neutralized -- now do it! Karl? Karl!
Hans, he killed by brother --
And if he alters it...? *
No. Heinrich's team must finish planting the detonators...and Theo needs time on the vault. After the * police come they'll waste hours trying to negotiate...that's when we search * for this man. Until then...we do not alter the plan.
He was my only brother...my only family! I want blood for my blood. We search...now.
I know what you are feeling. But this is not productive --
See to Heinrich... Now...you can break the code key...?
I don't know it! get on a Goddamn jet to Tokyo and ask the chairman! I'm telling you! You're just going to have to kill me --
It's useless to you! There's seven safeguards on our vault, and the code key is only one of them! You'll never get it open!
The code key, please...?
Who said we were terrorists?
You want...money? What kind of terrorists are you?
Yes...I know about them. The code key is a necessary step in accessing the vault.
This is what this is about? Out building project in Indonesia? Contrary to what you people think, we're going to develop that region... not 'exploit' it.
It's beautiful. I always enjoyed models as a boy. The exactness, the attention to every foreseeable detail... perfection.
'Yippe-ki-yea, mother fucker'? Now you are fucked.
Whoa, Hans, now you're the cowboy?
No more jokes, drop it or she gets it between the eyes!
That was Gary Cooper, shithead...
Nein, dies ein ist mein. This time John Wayne does not walk off into the sunset with Grace Kelly.
Yeah. Like you did with Takagi.
I'm going to count to three...
That was tricky, with the accent. I bet you do a great Ed Sullivan. Why do you need the detonators, Hans? I already used the explosives.
Put it down now.
Hans. Your Hans.
Sounds better than nothing.
One weekend I went to a combat ranch... You know, that game with the, the guns that shoot red paint? Must sound pretty silly to you...
Bill, you know how to use a handgun?
William Clay. Call me Bill.
Better than being caught with your pants down, right? John McClane.
They invited me to the Xmas party. Who knew?
I'm a cop from New York.
You...you don't work for Nakatomi... and if you're not one of them...
Only if New Jersey counts.
You...you're an American?
Whoa, whoa, easy man. I won't hurt you. Who are you? What are you looking for?
--ohGodplease -- don't kill me -- don't kill me -- you're one of them, I know it --
Go fuck yourself.
Hear that? Talk to me, where are my detonators. Where are they or shall I shoot another one? Sooner or later... ...I might get to someone you do care about.
Do you really think you have a chance against us, Mr. Cowboy?
Actually, I was always partial to Roy Rogers. I really dug those sequined shirts.
I'm afraid not. But you have me at a loss -- you know my name, but who are you? Just another American who saw too many movies as a child. Another orphan of a bankrupt culture who thinks he's John Wayne...Rambo... Marshal Dillion.
I wouldn't think of leaving, Hans. Unless you want to open the front door...?
Mr. Mystery Guest. Are you still there?
Just the fly in the ointment, Hans. The monkey in the wrench, the pain in the ass -
Who are you, then?
Bad for your health anyway.
The only thing left for them is the City Grid... ...They may not do it.
Encourage them to be bolder.
When you're hot, you're hot.
...the circuits that cannot be cut... are cut automatically in reponse to a terrorist incident...You ask for miracles, Theo...I give you the FBI...
* Well have a look at what our friends outside are doing and I'll be right up.
You better heat up that miracle * you were talking about. We broke through on Number Six, and the Electromagentic came down like a sledgehammer...
Then don't waste time talking to me.
Three down, four to go --
We may have some problems. How is your schedule?
If out plan works...the FBI will get rid of it for us.
Thirty minutes to break the code... Two hours for the five mechanicals. The seventh lock...that's out of my hands.
I told you...
Then there's no reason not to tell it to us.
I'm an exceptional thief, Mrs. McClane. And now that I'm moving up to kidnapping, you should be more polite.
After all your posturing, all your speeches...you're nothing but a common thief.
Gennero. Miss Gennero.
Mr. Takagi chose his people well, Mrs...?
Yes, you're right. It will be done.
Good enough. And unless you like is messy, you'd better start taking us in groups to the bathroom.
No. But I'll have a sofa brought out to you. Good enough?
We have a pregnant woman out there -- -- relax, she's not due for two weeks, but a marble floor isn't doing her back any good. I'd like permission for her to more to one of the offices where there's a sofa.
You did. You murdered by Boss. Now... They're looking to me. Personally I'd pass on the jab. I don't enjoy being this close to you.
Oh? What idiot put you in charge?
I...have a request.
Holly, we have to stop meeting like this. So that's what it was. A fucking robbery. So why nuke the building, Hans?
Don't I always?
I'll be a few minutes. Wait here --
You want to know my idea of a marriage? It's a partnership where people help each other over the rough spots -- console each other when there's a down...and when there's an up, well, hell, a little Goddamn applause or an attaboy wouldn't be too bad. I needed that, John. I deserved that.
Oh, here it comes. One of those 'meaningful relationship conversations.' I never should've let you get those magazine subscriptions --
My job and my title and my salary did nothing to our marriage except change your idea of what it should be.
No matter what it did to our marriage -- ?
Didn't we have this same conversation in July? Damn it, John, there was an opportunity out here -- I had to take it --
Sure. It's unnerving. I remember this one particular married woman, she went out the door so fast there was practically a jetwash...I mean, talk about your wind chill factor...
This is a Japanese company, you know? They figure a married woman, she's on the way out the door...
Especially my name. You must miss it every time you write a check. When did you start calling yourself 'Ms. Gennero'?
...I've missed you. *
I would too. * They lock eyes for a moment, but it's an intense moment that says a lot about how they still feel about each other.
They would, huh?
Pomona! You'll be in the car the whole time...Look, let's make this easy. I have a spare bedroom. It's not huge, but the kids would love to have you at the house.
Ramona...no, Pomona, that's it.
Oh...Where does he live?
Well, Cappy Roberts retired out here a couple years ago. He said I could bunk with him.
That's okay... ... I have an eye on his private bathroom.
It's a long story. You know, I think that Ellis has his eye on you.
What are you doing?
Sure. Follow me.
Nice, but one of us is three hours out of sync. I think it's me. Is there a place I can wash up?
Yeah. I remember our first date.
You wife's made for this business. She know how to drive a hard bargain.
Hey, we're flexible. Pearl Harbor didn't work out, we got you with tape decks.
I'm fine. You throw quite a party. I didn't know they had Christmas in Japan.
Can I get you anything? Food? Cake? Watered down champagne punch?
Relax, Ellis. I'm off duty.
So I've heard.
I've spent half my life on airplanes, * I can recognize someone who just got off one. I'm Joe Takagi, Mr. McClane. I have ...something to do with this company.
Yeah. How'd you know?
Excuse me, I'm looking for --
I'm serious. Hey, this is my wife... Holly Gennero.
Al. Man, you were my rock. I couldn't have made it without you.
Stand by, Powell. I gotta check something out.
I hope so. But that's up to the guy upstairs. Upstairs... ...Hans, you bastard...what were you doing?
I got it. But you can tell her yourself. Just watch your ass and you'll make it.
Look...I'm getting a bad feeling up here...I'd like you to do something for me. Look up my wife...don't ask how, you'll know by then...and tell her...tell her...I've been a jerk. When things panned out for her, I should've been behind her all the way ...We had something great going until I screwed it up...She was the best thing that ever happened to a bum like me. She's heard me say I love you a thousand times, but she never got to hear this...honey...I'm sorry. You get all that?
Ask the FBI. They've got the terrorist playbook and they're running it, step by step.
Powell? What's going on?
Then this won't matter. LAPD's not calling the shots anymore.
I still feel like shit.
Hey, you couldn't know.
I...I'm sorry. I didn't mean to make a joke of it.
Eleven years ago. Oh, it was dark... he was big for his age...damn ray gun he had looked real enough...yeah, I had all the right excuses...but afterwards... I really couldn't draw my gun again.
I...I shot a kid.
They way you drive, I can see why.
You don't want to know.
Yeah? What's the odds?
They boys'll be glad. We got a pool going on you.
Yeah. But all things being equal, I'd rather be in Philadelphia. By the way, chalk up two more terrorists.
Roy? You still with us?
In my youth, partner. In my youth.
The way you drove that car, I figured you for the streets.
Don't tell me, partner. I'm just a desk jockey who was on the way home when you rang.
Speaking of cows, did you ever hear so much bullshit in your life? Two hours? That doesn't even make any sense --
I'm here, cowboy.
Al? Al, you there?
It's a date. You buy the ice cream.
Two. And I'd sure like to see them swinging on the jungle gym with Al junior.
Not yet, the wife in working on our first. You got any kids back on the ranch?
You sound like a man with a couple of kids.
'Sugar, enriched flour, partially hydrogenated vegetable oil, polysorbate 60 and yellow dye #5.'
Yeah, just trying to handle some year old twinkies. Yucck. What do they put in these things?
Hey, I love you. So do a lot of the guys. So hang in there, man. Hang in there.
Two? Are you sure?
No, but it's gonna need one hell of a paint job and a shitload of screen doors. One spotters say you got two with that blast.
The plastique I found. Is the building on fire?
Safe and sound, thanks to you. What the fuck was that?
I said we'll talk later, Roy. If you're what I think you are you should know when to listen, when to shut up... and when to pray.
Al, what's wrong? Did something -- -- Oh, God. You're coming in! That's it, isn't it? Christ, Powell, I told you what you're dealing with here --
I'm here, Roy, but I'm, uh, kind of busy. Let's talk later, okay?
They're all yours, Al. Good luck.
Got it...'Roy'. Now listen. If you think of anything else you think we need to know, don't be shy, okay? In the meantime I want you to find a safe place and hole-up and let us do our job. Understand?
Uh, what do I call you?
I'm ahead of you...partner.
I hear you... Partner. And LA's finest are on it, so light 'em if you got 'em.
I've seen enough phoney ID's in my time to recognize that the ones they've got cost a fortune. Add all that up and I don't know what the fuck it means, but these are bad ass preps and they're here to stay.
How do you know?
This is Deputy Chief Robinson. Who is this?
This is --
Anytime you want to go home, Sergeant...consider yourself dismissed.
He's alone, tired, hunted, and hasn't seen diddly-squat from us and you think he gives a flying fuck about what you're going to do to him? Robinson, wake up and smell the shit you're shoveling!
Maybe. And maybe they'd at least be talking to us! Now tell your 'partner' to stay out of it, or so help me if he lives through this I'll put him behind bars myself!
Christ, can't you read between the lines! He did everything he could to save him...if he gave himself up they'd both be dead!
Goddamn, didn't you hear him! He practically pulled the Goddamned trigger himself -- he gave that man to them --
Give me that. Now, listen to me, mister, I don't know what you think you're doing, but demolishing a building doesn't fall under the definition of 'help'! There's hundreds of people out here and you covered half of them in pieces of glass --
Is that him?
Who the hell knows? Maybe he was a stockbroker who looked at the Dow Jones and opted for early retirement!
What about the body that fell out of the window -- ?
-- all we know? We don't know shit, Powell. If there's hostages why hasn't anyone asked for ransom? If there's terrorists, where's their goddamn list of demands? All we know is that someone shot up your car, and it could be the same flake you've been talking to on the radio!
Going in...are you out of your mind? There's 30 hostages in there -- for all we know --
What's it look like? We're going in.
What's going on?
-- recognizing phony ID's? Christ, Powell, he could be a fucking bartender for all we know!
A hunch. Things he said. Like, knowing how to recognize a phony ID --
How do you know?
I don't think so, Sir. In fact... I think he's a cop. Maybe not LAPD, but definitely a badge.
He claims? Powell, has it occured to you he could be one of the terrorists, pulling your chain? Or some kind of nut case who --
We don't exactly know, Sir. He won't give us him name. He appears to be the man who called in the report...he's killed one of the terrorists for sure and claims he capped two others.
Then who the hell have you been talking too?
The terrorists? Don't know, Sir. We haven't heard a peep from them.
Dwayne Robinson. Well, what have you learned? What do they want?
I am, Sir...Sergeant Al Powell.
Fuck you, sir - if I'm right, I don't need you. What I want is - if I make an honest mistake I want help.
If you're right I'm gonna back you a hundred percent, you know that.
Don't let 'em off the ground.
What if we gotta kill a whole lot of people?
They jet's comin' out. But don't let 'em off the ground.
So whatsa deal?
Gene, Jesus, what a bull he is!
I never make bets or guesses, that way I'm never wrong and I never have to pay out.
Whattaya think: we gonna kill any civilians tonight, Gene?
No. I never smile any more.
Gene -- you smilin'?
You men shoot, aim for the white meat!
You'll be okay.
Come on, nobody's gonna get hurt. If they were gonna shoot, they'd shoot now.
God damn it, Sheila isn't gonna believe it. They just call in and say gas up a stretchout and get it down to and I say, 'shit, another load of Elks for the massage parlors.'
Yes, I would.
I was lookin' at it. I saw you, man! Jesus! You oughta see yourself! You wouldn't believe it.
Come on, what's under this?
Jesus, you're the man!
These seats come out?
Listen, it's late already when I realize it's not just a couple of ordinary faggots, it's just you and Sal. I couldn't get a baby sitter.
They're not after you, they're after me.
Jesus - what - I'm afraid - I'm gonna get shot or whatever. You oughta see it on TV, the guns, the cops, they got cannon, machine guns, they're loaded with gear.
Heidi - why didn't you come down here?
I know you can't stand me to say I'm fat. Like I can't stand you being a bank robber. I guess that's what love is -- huh, Sonny?
Don't call yourself fat.
...because you hurt me, God how you hurt me. Can you imagine, marrying another man? Did I do something to make you do that? Did I ever turn you down, or anything? The only thing I couldn't do, you're gonna laugh, is go on top - I got this fear of high places! And I let myself get fat.
See? You're screaming with the language and all! A person can't communicate with you. You become a stranger in your own home...
Heidi, for Christ sake, shut up! Will you shut your fucking mouth and listen?!
I blame myself, Sonny. I notice you been tense, like something is happening; the night before last you're yellin' at the kids like a madman, believe me. And then you wanted me to go on this ride with the kids, this caterpillar about from here to there - fulla one- year-old kids. It's ridiculous. I'm not about to go on this ride, so you yell right there, 'You pig, get on the fuckin' ride!' Well, everything fell outta - me - my heart, my liver fell to the floor - you name it! Yellin' at me in front of all those people. Because you never talked and I never been scared of you, never. I think: he's gonna shoot me and dump my body in the river.
Heidi, I'm dying.
They don't know, I sent them to the neighbors. Sonny, Jesus, it's not like you. I can't believe, because you never hurt anybody since the day I knew you.
What about the kids?
Hey, Sonny! I'm watchin' it on TV!
It's okay... it's okay...
Sonny, there's somebody under that desk over there... I'm sorry...
Take the subway. We need the car. Hey, gimme the keys - the keys!
Well, how'll I get home?
Hey, don't take the car!
It's too late - just get away from me - don't talk to me now - go over to your place...
Maybe we can take something smaller... like a Spanish grocery.
Jackie - what are you talking about?
Sonny, I'm gettin' real bad vibes.
I love you.
I'll kiss the baby for you.
Oh, yeah, I will...
Well, stay away from them. Don't get close.
Yeah. A lot of guns.
The robbers in the bank. They got guns?
Honey, send out for Kentucky fried chicken. The baby, just open a bottle of prunes, and one of the beef. The bottles are in the fridge.
It looks like a whole roast.
He says he doesn't know. Why don't you cook whatever's there?
Sonny? Don't send me away! I can help you save your soul ...
Yeah, well...maybe you better talk to one of these others, okay?
That's why I can talk to you, as an equal, Sonny. You got to merge your whole soul with God. And then you are Him and one with the Holy Ghost.
No. Look, we're kind of....
You know, Sonny, I used to dope a lot, and I was into dipping? And I did a couple bank jobs, and the Lord Jesus in his everlasting mercy saved me, you know how?
Yeah, well I don't blame him.
Jesus Christ is coming back and he's really pissed.
You said a mouthful... sweetheart!
Yeah... I'll write a song. Ha, ha. I don't know. Life is funny!
Yeah... see ya in my dreams, huh?
Right. See you sometime.
Thank you much... and huh, bon voyage.
I don't know what to say to ya! I guess I just wanted to say I'll see ya... or whatever.
It's my only chance!
Do you still want the operation?
Well... I don't know if I have or not.
That's good then. You've found something.
Yeah... huh, thank you. I'm going to go back, Sonny, to the hospital. They're really nice people. They're really trying to help me.
All right! He didn't do it. All right? Now... would you get the fuck off the phone? I'll bet that really changed them, huh? Anyway, Leon... did I do it for you?
Are they on the phone still?
They won't talk to you.
All right, enough! Who the fuck is on the phone... anyway? Is that you Moretti? You on the phone? Will somebody talk to me?
Yeah... I knew it. But, what choice do I have? I'm in the hospital; they drag me out of the hospital... bring me down here...
Who's on the phone, now? What do you mean... throw it on you? You knew it, right?
Look... don't throw that on me.
Look... who's on the phone?
No! They're standing all around me. Seven thousand fucken cops... all around me.
You don't have a choice?
I don't have a choice.
That's great. Just terrific. You talk to me with them on the phone, right? That is really smart. And, you don't tell me?
Where are they now? Just tell me... are they on the phone now?
Sonny, would you please just tell them... please...
All right. Then what do you want me to say?
I can't survive in prison, Sonny...
I gotta listen to it if they think...
Oh... they're fucken crazy. That's a snow job. Don't listen to that shit!
Well... they told me that I was an accomplice...
How did they think that? What are they... crazy? What do you mean. That's bullshit, Leon. They're giving you a fucken story.
These guys that got me down here, you know, huh... they think that I'm part of this whole thing. They think I'm part of the plot to rob the bank!
Would you do something for me? Please?
He ain't going out. And if I go out he's just gonna kill the people. There's a lot of lives that I'm responsible for... that's all. So, I can't do anything. I got myself into this mess and I'll get myself out of it... the best way I know how! One of the ways is not giving up. I'm telling ya!
Sal... Sal... Naturale, oh boy!
I know I am. I know!
Oh... wow! Sonny, you're really into one mess now.
Sal? Yeah... Sal is with me.
So! Sal is with you?
Sal wanted to go to Wyoming. I told him it wasn't a country. We gotta get outta the country! To hell with a guy who doesn't know where Wyoming is. Okay. Can you imagine what kind of a shape I'm in?
I like that... yeah!
I don't know... you could have picked a better place.
What am I supposed to do?
God, Algeria! Do you know there's a bunch of... they walk around there... God! People walk around with masks and things on their heads. They're a bunch of crazy people there.
I know that. I'm warped... I'm warped!
Howard Johnson's... you're warped. You know that? You're really warped!
Huh ... I don't know. They got Howard Johnson's there. I don't know why the fuck I'm going there for.
Why you going to Algeria?
Who the fuck knows? I think we're gonna go ... we worked it out to Algeria. So, I don't know. So I'll go to Algeria.
Where you gonna go?
You're really crazy.
I gotta jet coming here and we're gonna try to get the fuck outta this thing. And we're gonna go, man!
I'm free to do what I want? And you think I would want to go with you some place on a plane? Where? Where ya going?
I'm getting out of here, man. I'm not going to stay here and I'm not giving up. I mean, huh, they're going to kill me, anyway. So fuck it! But, if I can get out of this... I am going to get out. And, how I'm going to do it is to get a jet out of here and I'm flying the fuck out... That's all, Leon. If you want to come with me, then you're entitled... you can come. You're free to do what you want.
I did it on my own. I did this all on my own. I ain't laying it on anybody. Nothing on anybody. I'll tell you something, though, it's about time that I squared away my accounts... you know. I am squaring away my accounts with life. Maye this whole thing is gonna end, somehow. Maybe it'll just end! Maybe I'll just close my eyes and the whole fucken thing will be over. That would be all right too! I said... I thought I would square it away with you... you know? That I would get you down here and that I would say so long to you... or, if you wanted... you know, to take a trip...
All right. I know you didn't ask me. You didn't ask me but I did it.
But I didn't ask you to go rob a bank.
I told you. That I got a lot of pressures. You said to me that you needed money, and I knew that you needed money! I saw you there lying in the hospital like that... and I said... shit, man, I got to get this guy some money.
I'm not on the phone to talk to you about that. Well, I don't know what to say, Leon. When you gimme that... when you hit me with that shit. I mean, what am I supposed to say?
Yeah... obviously you don't... when you put a gun to somebody's head... and you say go to sleep so that it won't hurt when I pull the trigger. Death? Don't talk about death to me. I have been living with death for the last six months. Why do you think I'm in the hospital? I take a handful of pills to get away from you. And then here I am out of the hospital talking to you on the phone... again. I have no friends left. No job. I can't live. I have to live with people. This death business... I'm sorry!
I don't know what I'm doing.
No really... I don't think that you realize what it means. The things that you do, Sonny. You put a gun to somebody's head...
Now don't give me that deep shit now. Don't start with that shit.
What do you mean... what am I talking about? Do you realize that you say that to me every day of your life? I am dying. Do you know... do you realize the death that you are spreading around to the people who are around you?
What are you talking about?
What? What are you talking about? You are dying? Did you ever listen to yourself when you say that?
I don't know what I'm gonna do... you know. Boy... I'm dying.
Yeah... I know.
Fine, thank you. I'm in trouble. That is... now I am!
Yeah. So how are you?
So... that sure is something.
You can't talk or do anything. You really feel... you know... I'm just sort of coming out of it now.
You come in and they say, right away, that you are crazy. And they start putting things in your arm... you know. How do they expect you to get uncrazy if you're asleep all the time?
That... huh... they just shoot you with drugs.
Yeah. It was terrible.
Well, you know ... Moretti told me before that you were drugged up.
I'm really shakey.
Oh... huh ... how you feeling?
Well.... huh ...
I never thought I'd get out this way. I'll tell you.
Yeah. You said... I thought you were never getting out?
Well... I'm out of the hospital.
How are you doing?
Hello. Hello, Leon.
You think it over, Leon.
I don't know what to say to him. I can't.
How is he gonna hurt you on the telephone?
You're in it up to your ass, Leon. You're an accessory. You talk him out of there and they might be a little more understanding of your case.
I can't talk to him.
Well, don't you figure you owe to him to get him out of there?
It made him crazy - so much demand, he'd fly into this rages. And I got more depressed than ever; I saw I'd never get the operation. So I tried to take my life - I swallowed about a half pound of pills ... blues, reds, yellows, downers, uppers, screamers ... you name it. But I just threw them up and wound up in the hospital. Sonny comes there and looks at me and just says: 'Wow!' So when I hear he's in the bank, I almost go crazy because I know he's doin' it for me.
He needed money? For the operation for you?
Ten days I spent in Atlantic City - Sonny was frantic - he knew I was drinking; he didn't know where I was ... who I was with. I couldn't explain why I did the things I did. So I went to this psychiatrist who explained to me I was a woman in a man's body. So Sonny right away wanted to get me money for a sex change operation: but where was he to get that? 2500 dollars! My God, he's in hock up to his ears already.
What kind of things, Leon?
He's scared. It's crazy. I never met anyone like him. His wife, he's a wonderful father to his children. His mother - you should see her - his mother and father together are like a bad car wreck - he lets it all slide off his back, he sees them, he pays their rent. Unbelievable. I wanted to get married ... He didn't really want it ... he's married already! But he did it. I don't know why. I thought it would help me, but it didn't. I was just as confused and unhappy was before; I did terrible things.
He's makin' threats in there.
He was under great strain: you don't understand, he's a very mixed up person.
Somebody's got to stop him, Leon.
What good is that? They couldn't stop him. And it'd just make him mad. They don't know him.
You try calling the police?
He won't listen to anybody. He's been very crazy all summer. Since June he's been trying to kill me.
If he won't listen to you, who will he listen to?
I can't help it. I can't stop him from anything.
He's got eight people in there with him. He's got this kid with him ... they're gonna shoot the people.
Well, you got to get hold of yourself. You got to talk to him, tell him to give himself up.
Oh, God, they shot me with like unreal!
Leon? Whatsa matter? They give you a shot down the hospital or what?
He's groggy, Sonny. Let me get him on his feet and he'll call you back.
I want to talk to him.
He's all doped up.
Is he all right? Is he all right?
We're bringing in your wife...
Aspirins ... okay you got it. Charlie! Six pizzas!
Cokes, seven-ups ... also some aspirin ...
All right ... I got some hungry people in there ... I want to get some pizza ... some stuff like that ...
There won't be ... there won't be ... What else do you need? How else can we help you?
Just one more explosion like that and you're gonna see a dead body ...
I'm not ... I'm not ... you're gettin' a bus ... you're gettin' a bus ... the jet's comin' into Kennedy ... and your wife's on the way ... what else do you need? What else can I get you? Listen, I don't know how you can do better ... see that man over there ... the FBI guy ...
Don't fuck with me ...
Can't land ... you'd kill people ...
You know, you're telling me that a helicopter can't land here ...
It can't happen again ... I'll do everything I can to stop anything I can ...
Well, what were you doin' back there?
Sonny, your wife's on the way ... We reached her ... your wife's on the way ... everything you asked for, you got.
You're full of shit ...
Is on its way ... The helicopter can't land but we got a bus ... the jet's on its way to Kennedy ... we got a bus coming here ...
Wait a minute ... everything you asked for is on the way ...
Bullshit ... I don't walk to talk to you ...
I swear to God I had nothing to do with it ...
So, what were they doin'? You're tellin' me you had nothin' to do with that back there?
No, I'm not tryin' to fuck you.
You tryin' to fuck me?
They were ...
What the fuck do you want?
Sonny, come on out!
What the hell you doin' back there?
I'll see what they'll do.
Nothin' doin'. I give you one hostage when you bring my wife, and one for the helicopter, one for the jet, and the rest can come home on the jet.
The girl hostages.
What do you want?
Okay, what do you give me?
I want to see my wife. I want you to bring her down here.
Sonny, be reasonable!
I don't know, Sonny. I don't know if the helicopters can land in here. I'll have to check it out. I got superiors, unnerstan? They don't always see eye to eye with me. I'll do what I can.
I want a helicopter to get outa here! And a jet to take us to... ... wherever we want to go. Outa the country, so no little jets. A big one with a bar and a piano lounge.
It's okay, you got a lot of protection.
He wanted to kill me!
Calm down... look at this, look at him...!
Calm down, you're not ...
When I'm bein' fucked, I like to be kissed a lot. Who the fuck are you tryin' to con me into some deal? You're a city cop, where's the FBI? This is a federal offense, I got kidnapping, armed robbery, they're gonna bury me! You know it, you can't talk for them, you're some flunky pig tryin' to bullshit me. Now God damn it, get somebody in charge here to talk to me!
Well, armed, then. Nobody's been hurt. Release the hostages, nobody is gonna worry over kidnapping charges, the worst you're gonna get is five years -- you can be out in a year.
... armed robbery ...
Let Sal come out, take a look. What hope you got? Quit while you're ahead. All you got is attempted robbery.
I don't forget about Sal and the boom boom room. I want you to see this.
You want me to give up, huh? Look, Sal's in back with the girls. Anything happens to me - one move - and Sal gives it to them. Boom boom. How do I know you won't jump me?
Come on. I want you to see something.
You got these cops outta here. They're comin' in too close.
So -- you want me to send one out there ... Okay. I'll see what I can do.
You're all one way! I'm bein' reasonable with you; give me somethin' ... Give me one of them, anyway ... Just one ...
Oh, no ... Women is all we got.
Okay, give us the women.
They're what's keeping me alive. You think you're dealing with an idiot? Talk to me then.
How about letting the people out of the bank. Why put them in this position?
Sure ... like ... I'm not gonna shoot you.
I'd like just some sign I can trust you too, Sonny. I don't want to trust my body out where you could just shoot me. Some sight ... right?
Right -- I'm with you, buddy.
You frisk me.
I frisk you?
Okay, Sonny, I want to see if the people in the bank are okay, then what I want to do is work out a way to get them out of there. I want to come over there, without a gun ... and you can frisk me. So you can see you can trust me. So we can talk and find a way outta this mess.
Call me whatever you want.
Listen, Sonny ... can I call you Sonny for short?
One word. You won't find it in the phone book.
Sonny-boy, one word?
Call me Sonny-boy.
Give me a name, any name, just so I got somethin' to call you.
What do you want to know that for?
Right -- got ya. Okay, so there's you -- what's your name?
Sal. He's the killer. We're Vietnam veterans so killing don't mean anything to us, you understand?
Sal? What's that for? Salvatore?
I got Sal.
How many you got in there?
I'm not alone.
You alone, or you got confederates?
Awright, but I wanna talk to you. First off, we wanna know if the people in the bank are okay.
I told you -- keep away. I don't know what we do now.
Okay, you're in there and we're out here. What do we do now?
... But you keep away from the bank or we start throwing bodies out the front door one at a time... You got it? Okay?
Listen, first off, is anybody hurt in there?
What a fuckin' comedy! WNEW plays all the hits.
This is Detective Sergeant Moretti, asshole, we got you completely by the balls. You don't believe me, I'm lookin' you right in the eye. Right now, I can see you...
What are you doin' in there?
Eugene, at 3:07, this became Federal. Why don't I take it over now?
He hasn't so far. I'm the one who can make a mistake. That's what scares the shit out of me.
He's totally unstable. He'll make a mistake.
What makes you think you'll be able to control it?
We're all set at Kennedy.
Why didn't you just wait and try to take 'em out there in the street?
Here comes the FBI. You men lookin' for protection? We got all the police right here.
Listen, I owe a couple hundred dollars! I don't wanta leave owing anybody anything! A clean slate, a new leaf...
What now, Sonny?
You got Bank Americard?
I want to dictate my will. I need a notary?
No. I had some legal training, but...
Are you a lawyer?
I don't think so.
Would I hire you?
You know - I had a job once. I used to work in a bank. I had been training ... I used to have a boss ... Mr. Don Frio ... he wore a toupee ... I wonder if you'd hire me if I came in here and asked you for a job ...
We like you, too.
You know ... I like you people ... I really do.
You know, I don't know him very well - but he's not gay ... and he's not going back to prison ... One time when he was in prison, they gang-banged him; 13 years old and eight guys gave it to him ... So Sal isn't goin' back to prison, no way.
You seem like a likable enough guy. It's hard to judge.
No you don't.
Sure - we like you.
You like me?
Special to me, too.
They're like any others but they're special to me. You got kids? You told me; you got two.
They look like good kids.
I'll never see them again, Mister Mulvaney.
Oh, Jesus! You want to be a martyr or a hero or what?
I'll be God damned if you will.
You tell me. Is he endangering his health, because if you tell me he is, I'll get him out.
I stay here. Damn it. I just needed the insulin. I'm used to it. Go on. Go on.
Hey! I'm tryin' to help you.
I'm not going. I'm okay.
You know more than the Doctor? You're not okay, look at you. Come on ... ... let's get him out ...
I'm okay ... I'm okay ...
What are you talking about? What do you think I'm doin'? I'm gettin' the ball rollin'. I'm keeping these people happy ... I'm keeping you happy ... I gotta keep the cops cooled out ... I gotta do everything ... I gotta pay for the pizza ... I'm workin' on it, do you know what I mean? I'm workin' on it ... Jesus Christ! I gotta do it all ... I got all the ideas ... you want me to give you the gun? You want to take it over?
Are we going to get the ball rolling?
I don't know.
Do you think we can turn it on?
I don't know, Sonny ... on the roof somewhere I guess.
Where's the air conditioning?
Wait a minute ... I've been looking at this all wrong ... Let's look at it the other way ...
What now, Sonny?
You see what we're dealing with? They want me to kill all of you!
I guess he didn't appreciate your use of language. They don't speak that way on television. It's a rule. Do you realize you've cut off a valuable source of communication?
Why the hell did he do that? What the hell did I do?
The TV ... they want to talk to you ...
I don't fool around with you.
You're just a nice guy, Mr. Mulvaney. Only don't fuck around with me, you know what I mean?
They'll shoot you; the fucking cops'll shoot you ... they don't give a damn. In spite of that bank insurance. You see what they did in Attica, they shot everybody, the hostages, prisoners, cops, guards, forty-two people they killed, the innocent with the guilty.
If you take anybody, please take me.
What if I take you with me?
I don't care who you are ... I just want to get you outta here, safe, right?
Don't ask me questions. I got connections. You find out who I am, you're cold meat.
Ah, I know! You're being very cooperative. I got no complaint against you whatever; you got bank insurance?
I got two kids ... and I'd like to see them again.
You got kids?
They make $105 a week to start. They fold the flag, check the place out in the morning. I don't know what they learn, Sonny.
To what ... learn how to shoot? They don't get a gun.
Well, they go to guard school.
Let's go to the back door. How'd that guy get to be a guard?
You and me are checking the other ways in and out.
Now, you -- what's your name?
It's locked on the inside. It's through that passageway and to the right.
Where's the back door?
I took too long.
I swear to God... on my salary, I'm not gonna be any hero...
Sal, get 'em in the vault.
Hello, Mulvaney here...
You're goin' outside with me. If there's no cops around, we just split. Otherwise, you go with us.
For God's sake, will you please go now? We gave you every nickel we got.
Give me the keys...
The gun's right on your back...
Gimme the keys to get outta here!
Howard, give him the keys...
Gimme the traveler's checks and the register.
Hello... I'm sorry I can't talk to you right now... I suggest you call during banking hours tomorrow. What is your name?
My side, shit!
Believe me, I'm on your side.
Hey, you, manager... Don't get any ideas, fucker... See that man there? I bark and he bites!
Okay, don't worry about it. Stick it in the bag...
It's all we got.
This is it? What am I gonna do with this? Holy shit!
Come on, lemme load you up...
What's the matter with you?
Well, you get your mind right. I'm a Catholic and I don't wanna hurt nobody, but goddamn it, don't you play no games with me. Unnastand?!?
I must of been outta my mind.
I can take care of that.
Okay, is the vault open?
Do what the gentleman says, Howard.
Hey... let him out!
If he moves - blow his guts out... Cover him!
Okay, okay... we know it's a stickup!
It's okay. [Regards to the family, Sam.]
I'm glad it's okay.
Thanks again, Sam.
Yeah, thanks for keeping an eye out.
Yeah. Well, you're okay?
Little smoke: like a Polish four- alarm fire, is all.
You all right?
Yeah, just a cigarette got in a wastebasket.
Everything's all right? You okay?
What is it, Sam?
Hey. It's raining.
You were terrific, too!
Ah, Sonny! Good luck, you know?
Girls, I wanta apologize. For my language back there.
I wish somebody would tell me I'm gonna live long enough for it to be a habit. My parent, she'll be okay. My husband, he'll be okay. I even know who the bum is gonna marry. Terrific. She'll take good care of him.
I told you, he's got diabetes.
I didn't eat any pizza.
What about Howard?
Hey, girls -- I was on television...
It's up to you ladies.
No, that's all.
Do you remember anything else about Sal?
Did you always call him Junior.
No, not until after they killed him.
Did you know he was a homosexual?
Oh, a long time. Because I kept asking my husband where the heck could Junior be? He wasn't around here. I thought maybe he was in prison or some place.
When was the last time you saw Sal?
It was on the TV.
How did you know your son was involved?
You gonna smoke the cigarette?
You know, you remind me of my 19- year-old brother - only he's got his hair down to his knees - he looks like something that eats berries and roots out of the ground. God forbid I should say something to him like, 'Listen, if you ever smoke marijuana, just remember that it's illegal' and he storms outta the house. You rob a bank, but you keep your body pure, is that it?
You're really pure, you know? You got a perfect record. You never used that stuff to ruin your body, why start now?
Your body is the temple of the Lord.
My body? What for?
Go ahead. Do what you want to do. I hate to see you break a perfect record. You oughta take care of your body.
For God's sake! As soon as I'm outta this bank robbery, I'm gonna stop ... okay?
You shouldn't start now.
No! I'm not kidding. Don't you understand? You're pure!
You don't want cancer? You're about to get your head blown off, you're worried about cancer. Gimme the cigarette.
Because I don't want cancer.
You stopped? Why?
I used to, but I stopped.
Because I'm scared, that's why. You never smoked?
You don't smoke ... why do you want to start now.
Let's move it, goddamn it.
Hey, Sonny - You did it!
Oh, Jesus! Hey. How about food? I forgot to ask to have food on board.
There it is, Sal. Sal?
Just give me a receipt. Hey, Sal, you okay?
Hey, Sal ... How you doin'?
He was showin' me how the airport bus is comin' in, like that, Sal. What's wrong with him?
Why couldn't he talk about that here?
He was talkin' about arrangements ... we were talkin' about the TV.
What'd he say?
They gotta stop sayin' that.
Have him walk in backwards.
It's the FBI. He wants to come in.
That's all they're interested in - it's a freak show to them. I can't control it, Sal - let'em say what they want. Forget it. It don't matter.
They keep sayin' two homosexuals. I'm not a homosexual. I want you to stop them saying that.
Look, I talked to him and it's not going to be a helicopter - they can't land on top of the roof - so they're comin' with a big ... limousine bus and they'll take us to the airport - and they're gonna get a jet ... so things are rollin' ... they're movin' ... I also ordered some food ... I got some pizzas for us, all right? I got some things to drink - I got sodas ... I even asked them for aspirins ... I'm doin' what I can ... now I gotta pay for the pizza ... where are the marked bills?
Get over there!
Okay ... okay ... all right, Sal, it's okay. I got everything straightened out ... it's gonna be okay.
Everybody! Back here!
They're trying to come through the door!
It's nothing - it just goes up - it's the safest thing in the world. Safer than a car. Don't worry about it, Sal - it'll be all right ... they're great ...
I never been up in a plane before.
Wyoming ... That's not out of the country -- that's in the United States ... Look, I'll be back.
You realize, Sal, that we're gonna get outta the country, so if you wanna talk to somebody, do it now ... You gotta Mother or a Father? Friends? If we gotta be outside the country, where do you wanna go? Any country. Just name a country.
We're not there yet.
Does that still go?
We'd kill ourselves.
... because if you're talking about coppin' a plea, I'm tellin' you right now, there's no deal ... I'm never going back to prison ... We got our own deal already ... Do you remember the pact we made? You and me and Jackie - that night in the bar ... we were talkin' about if we get trapped in the bank, what are you gonna do ... Right? What did we say? What did we say!
What do you mean? You talkin' about coppin a plea?
Maybe we can get outta this thing alive ... get 'em to drop the kidnapping charges ...
What kind of a deal?
I figure maybe we can get the FBI to make a deal ...
Okay, Sal ... what do we do?
All right ... let's go.
All right ... send them the guard.
To show that we're negotiating.
Dead or alive?
He wants one.
I'll tell you right now - that I'm ready to do it.
We won't have to.
But I want to know what you think.
I want him to think that.
But do you mean in? ... But you just told him that if worse comes to worse...
Well, I stalled him for a while. When it comes the time, then we'll work it out. Okay?
Are you serious? About throwin' a body outta here if we have to?
Sal, I'm sorry about this. But we can get outta this thing. There's a way outta this.
But do you mean it?
I want him to think that.
... The bodies out the door.
You mean that?
How'd that happen?
It's the cops. Shit!
Ah shit. Okay... go ahead. Anybody else have to go?
Get 'em in the vault!
Where's the money?
Yeah - it's all right... let's go.
What are you crying for? Jesus Christ. It's not your fault there's no money...
Let's go, Sonny.
Fuck him - let him out!
Hey, for christ's sake... now... fuckin' asshole... He can't make it.
We'll have hamburgers on the plane. You ready?
I ain't eaten all day. I just realized it.
Okay. Which one goes?
That's the jet. You give us one more, now. That's the deal...
You follow my car.
Okay - you got your one.
You can't allow! I'm running this thing, what gives you the idea you can say shit? Come on. I'll pay you. Whatta you want? Two hundred? A thousand?
I can't allow that, Sonny...
Gimme the black guy...
What can he do, he's clean...
I don't want him.
It's my mother. Who needs this shit?
Sonny! Could you come out, please? Could you come out, please?
The manager, he's diabetic, he's lookin' bad.
What I said. You just sit quiet and we'll handle Sal.
Wait a minute! What the fuck you tryin' to tell me?
I just want to see all you young ladies are all all right in here.
Nobody give their right name ... it's the FBI!
Nothin' personal, huh? The man that kills me, I want him to do it because he hates my guts. Not because it's a job. Okay, let's go ... but you gotta walk in backwards.
I wouldn't like to, but I will, if I have to.
Jesus, you'd like to kill me, too.
I have to see.
You got guts. You think if Sal and me have cut their throats we're gonna let you out?
I want to come in, and see if everybody's okay.
I want to talk to Leon.
I want them all.
At the airport. We get on the plane, check it out, and if it's all okay we'll send them out. Except one.
Okay, when do I get them?
Well, Jesus, these hostages are keeping me alive.
I'd like to work with you on this, not against you.
I've got a jet. I'll have airport limousine here in a half hour. I want the hostages.
Aw, Jesus ... you been doin' us favors all night!
No more favors. That's all over, Sonny.
First off, get the lights back on and the air conditioning.
Goodbye, honey. Wish us luck!
Fuck! We did it!
Yeah - it looks real official.
Here's your document, Sonny.
Sonny - Here's your document.
Hey, let's get ready!
They're beautiful ...
My kids ... Kimmy and Jimmy.
Those bastards -- they poisoned the pizza! Sal - you didn't eat any pizza!?
He's got diabetes. He's not a well person.
Hey, you okay?
... Just give me time to think...
What is it? Did you just barge in here... He doesn't have plan. It's all a whim. 'Rob a bank! What not?'
Oh, shit! I gotta have time to think.
Come on, nobody's going to the bathroom - come on...
I forgot she's in here.
What are you trying to pull?
Who the hell is that? God damn it! What the...
Oh - Maria!
It's not a joke. I got this terrible fear of being locked in...
What's the matter... they never housebroke you?
Listen, I'll never make it. I'll have to go to the toilet.
I speak what I feel.
Listen, we got young girls here... you could watch your language.
Open this up!
Okay, who's the head teller here?
He's right. You shoulda done what he did. Go home. Don't talk to the FBI anymore.
No. This really pissed him off, Sonny. He says you're dead. He says he doesn't have a son.
Did Pop come down?
I'm a fuckup and an outcast. There isn't one single person in my life I haven't hurt through my love. You understand that? I'm the most dangerous person in the world, because if I love you, watch out, you're gonna get fucked, fucked over and fucked out!
Maybe! Aw Christ, what dreams you live on! Maybe what?
What the hell for? Twenty-five years in the pen?
I can't, Mom. If I come out Sal will kill them.
What'll you do? Come out.
Not now, Mom, please.
I know you wouldn't need Leon if Heidi was treating you right. The thing I don't understand is why you come out and sleep with Heidi anyway? You got two kids on welfare now. What're you goin' to bed with her, you don't have enough with one wife and two kids on welfare, you want a wife and three kids on welfare?
She doesn't have anything to do with it! You understand that? Mother? This is me!
If she comes down here, so help me I'm gonna mash her brains in. Everything in your life was sunlight and roses until you met her. Since then, forget it.
Mom. Mom. There are some things a mother shouldn't say in front of her son.
Did I say a thing against her? God forbid I should say anything against that fat cunt.
For God's sake don't start in on Heidi again ...
What's wrong with that? The FBI was very understanding when I explained it to him. Everybody knows it isn't you ... It's the pressures from your home life.
Mom - they're sending a bus to take us to the airport. You understand? If you're here - they're not gonna send it. They'll think I'm gonna come out with you.
Oh my God! I don't understand. If you needed money, why couldn't you come to me? Everything I got is yours. I got two hundred and maybe twenty-five in the savings. It's yours. You know it.
We can't stay here.
He was very understanding - you ought to talk to him ... Algeria?
Don't talk to them anymore. Sal and me are getting a jet, we're going to Algeria - I'll write you from there.
I said you were never a faggot.
Oh my God, mother!
Well, I'm only trying to get you outta this. I told them you were in Vietnam, you always had good jobs, you were with Goldwater at the '64 convention, but you had marital problems...
You did what? Who did you talk to? What for?
I talked to the FBI, I told them about you, they said if you just come outta the bank it's gonna be okay.
Mom - I got it all worked out; it's over. The best thing is you go home. Watch it on TV.
My God, Sonny - you oughtta see - Alla Brooklyn is here! On all 3 networks!
What do you want here, Ma? You could of watched it on TV.
Then talk about somethin' you fuckin' know about ...
Of course not ...
Oh yeah? Give up? You ever been in prison?
You could give up.
I don't want to be paid. I'm here with Sal and eight other people ... and we're dyin'! They're gonna blow our guts out, man! You're gonna see our brains onna sidewalk! How's that for all you shut-ins and housewives to look at! You gonna help, or you just put it on instead of AS THE WORLD TURNS? We're dyin' here! What have you got for me?
What do you want us to give you? You want to be paid for ...
Okay, newsman. How much you make a week? You're not talkin'. You payin' me? What have you got for me? We're givin' you entertainment ... what are you givin' us?
Newsman, not ...
How much you have to pay an entertainer to fill this slot?
You're news, Sonny ...
Yeah! We're hot entertainment, right? You got me and Sal on TV ... we're entertainment you sell, right?
The audience is interested in you, Sonny ... not me.
Wait a minute ... I'm talkin' to you. I'm askin' you a question ...
I'm here to talk to you, Sonny, not ...
Like what? Bank teller? What do they get paid - ... they pay one hundred thirty- five dollars and thirty-seven cents to start. I got a wife and kids. I can't live on that -- You want to live on that? What do you make a week?
What about, ah, non-union occupations?
Get a job doing what? You gotta be a member of a union, no union card - no job. To join the union, you gotta get the job, but you don't get the job without the card.
But I mean, why do you need to steal? Couldn't you get a job?
I don't know ... It's where they got the money. I mean, if you want to steal, you go to where they got the money, right?
Robbing a bank.
Why are you doing this?
Top of the World at the Stratosphere. It's completely secure. <b> INT. FBI JET -- NEXT </b> Cosgrove and Espinoza listen to this conversation.
<i>The Bounty Hunters have arrived. They will drop off the money in exactly one hour.</i> <i>Where do you want to meet?</i>
This is Bishop.
<i>My theft insurance policy will have to fork over the ten million... but that will take six to eight months due to Nevada state law.</i> <i>But you should know sir... that I employ bounty hunters. My bounty hunters can find these thieves.</i>
And if you can't deliver them?
<i>Well... I think that these are the gentlemen who robbed us. I'm also a bail bondsman out of Los Angeles. I can track down and deliver these crooks to you... for a small finder's fee of course.</i>
Yesterday I received an e-mail from a source. In this e-mail were four social security numbers linked to the gentlemen who presented counterfeit California driver's licenses to my company late last night.
What happened to my money, Mr. Williams? <b> INT. CLAREMONT WILLIAMS III BOND AGENCY -- NEXT </b> Claremont sits behind his desk with his phone to his ear.
<i>Mr. Bishop... this is Claremont Williams. I own the Williams Brothers armored car service.</i>
This is Drake Bishop.
<i>I once vowed never to invest too much emotion into anyone, anything.</i>
I LOVE YOU, DOMINO.
<i>Are you all right?</i>
What is it, Choco?
<i>That's the crew. They follow us.</i>
Who the hell is that?
<i>Choco grew up on the streets of El Salvador. When he was four years old... he stabbed another kid in the eye-ball with a pencil.</i> <i>There were wires crossed somewhere in his soul.</i>
<i>They can do subtitles.</i>
I've been training since I was twelve. Knives. Guns. Throwing stars. You name it... I can fight with it. I'm a hard worker and a fast learner. Nothing scares me. I'm not afraid to die.
<i>Holy shit... this bitch is fierce.</i>
<i>Promise me... you won't tell her... that I never fucked Pat Benatar.</i>
Promise me... you won't ever tell Domino.
What do you think, dumbshit?
Did it hurt?
Anything to get the fuck out of dodge.
What about your toe?
Oh! And another thing. I am a liar. A pathological liar. There was no day in Danang, no multiple tours in Nam. Just lies to get laid, lies to get respect. Truth is... I'm scared shitless all the time.
Don't fuck with me, Ed. Not you, not tonight.
I just charged $12.95 to our room for that movie. Now I'll never know how the story ends.
You know what I'm talking about, did you fuck her?
Maybe you should fuck her mom then.
Fella could get used to a life this ordinary.
Fuckin' A! We got a five hour drive back to LA ahead of us. <b> EXT. MACDONALD'S -- PARKING LOT -- MOMENTS LATER </b> Choco is now stripped down to his boxer shorts in the back PARKING LOT of the MacDonald's. Alf is hosing him down. Domino stares at Choco... admiring his body.
<i>The children like to urinate in the balls.</i>
Jesus Christ! What's that smell?
<i>Chinga te y tu mama tambien.</i>
Tell him it's not cute. Will you tell him, Domino!?
<i>I'm gonna kill you, Ed.</i>
Will you speak the fucking English language? The poor girl has no clue what you're talking about. The boy speaks English, you know. Reads, writes, I swear it. He does this when he's around girls. Thinks it's cute.
<i>We gotta bring him in.</i>
Fella takes out two kids and has the audacity to not show up for trial.
<i>He killed two children.</i>
Bail jumper's name is Cookie Kincaid. Nineteen years old. His mommie posted bail when he was arrested for allegedly partaking in a drive-by shooting in Hawthorne.
On a raid. If she wants to see justice... we gonna take Domino to the Jungle, baby. <b> EXT. JUNGLE -- NEXT </b> The El Camino pulls into the entrance to the JUNGLE. The neighborhood of LOW INCOME HOUSES winds upward into the HILLSIDE adjacent to the wall. Ed parks the El Camino next to the curb. <b> INT. EL CAMINO -- NEXT
Where are we going?
For the love of God. Not Spanish again. Who's the girl?
Alright. Time to ditch this thing. Did you take a look at the bathroom window?
My Frances? Frances and Charles have been kidnapped? <b> EXT. NEVADA DESERT -- NEXT </b>
Your son... and your nephew have been kidnapped by these crazy game show hosts from the Fox network. <b> INT. CIGLIUTI COMPOUND -- MASTER BEDROOM -- NEXT </b> Cigliuti sits up in bed.
<i>What is it?</i>
I'm so sorry to be bothering you in the middle of the night like this... but it's a bit of an emergency.
Yes. <b> INT. KEG HOUSE -- CHAPTER ROOM -- NEXT </b>
<i>I'm calling from the Kappa Epsilon Gamma house at California University.</i>
<i>I won't forget this, Domino. I'm sorry it turned out like this...</i>
<i>Remove... ... the... right arm.</i>
You're breaking up... I can't hear you.
I don't know. They might be dead already.
<i>What happened to them?</i>
<i>The FBI was breathing down Lateesha's neck... and she assumed that they were onto our scam. So she set up some college kids to take the fall for the heist. They have been under FBI surveillance for the past 6 months.</i> <b> INT. CHEVY SUBURBAN </b> Claremont drives like a maniac.
<i>The system hasn't been updated.</i>
Why the hell are we delivering them out here? I can't even find any warrants in the system for these four.
I fucked up. You can't help your greedy black lying ass from trying to get everything. All you've done is put a death sentence on Meeka.
You motherfuckin' Tino. You fucked us so bad.
I'm pulling up right now. Evacuate the fucking van! Plans have changed! <b> EXT. TEXACO STATION -- NEXT
Where are you? <b> INT. CHEVY SUBURBAN -- NEXT </b> Claremont is behind the Wheel of a BLACK CHEVY SUBURBAN. He pulls into the Texaco parking lot.
There's always a loophole with you, Claremont. Your black ass is one big loophole. <b> INT. VEGAS SECURITY LOCKDOWN -- [FLASH FORWARD] NIGHT
My armored car business. We just signed a new insurance policy in Nevada. There's a loophole.
I've already formulated a plan.
That bitch called me a bitch.
She's right... you lost your temper... and you started cursing like some ghetto skank. You lost all credibility right there!
<i>The money exchange will take place at Top of the World at the Stratosphere. Get there at exactly midnight.</i>
<i>The combination code is tattooed on his right arm. You'll never get inside Edna Fender's safe without the code-breaker on that arm.</i> <b> INT. CAST WINNEBAGO -- NEXT </b> Domino rides shotgun with her CELL PHONE to her ear.
We need hostages. Celebrity hostages. Just in case this gets ugly. <b> EXT. NEVADA DESERT -- LATER ON </b> The Cast Winnebago drives through the desert.
<i>Deliver them to the Needles DMV. Sundown at the Sam Kinison monument.</i>
<i>Did you get all four?</i>
You white folks don't understand the natural beauty of a woman's figure. Those are birthing hips. More cushion for the pushin'.
Claremont, you're a chubby chaser.
I became a bounty hunter because of cunts like you. I remember all the cunts in high school who were mean to me. Eventually... they all grew up to be just like you. Angry and bitter because they peaked early... and now they're stuck in some dead end marriage... or worse yet... an unfulfilling job that keeps them from meeting a man.
No. Please enlighten me.
Do you want know the real reason why I became a bounty hunter?
This is your last chance. Tell us everything you know.
Take us to Vegas. <b> EXT. DESERT ROAD -- DAY </b> The crew rides in the back of the Wanderer's truck toward Vegas. <b> INT. VEGAS SECURITY LOCKDOWN -- NIGHT </b> Domino stares at Taryn as she returns to the table.
That's the only way you can cope with the route your life has taken. The fact that you made the choice to pursue this life- style... much to the chagrin of your mother... who is so clearly ashamed of you. Imagine her shame when we cart you off to prison because you won't just tell the truth about what really happened. <b> EXT. NEVADA DESERT -- DAY FOR NIGHT [MESCALINE TRIP]
<i>Now the bitch was getting personal.</i>
Take us to Vegas.
Not yet. <b> INT. CAST WINNEBAGO -- NEXT </b> Alf pulls onto the 15 FREEWAY.
Show me the tapes. I want to see them.
<i>The bitch was bluffing. There were no dupe tapes. If there were... they'd have shown them to me by now.</i>
<i>Her car was in the shop.</i>
<i>You drove Lateesha's daughter to school... then dropped her off at the DMV. Why?</i>
We needed to verify some bond certificates for Claremont. She pushes stuff through the system for us... helps us track down perps for a kick back. It's all legal. <b> INT. MUSTANG CONVERTIBLE -- [FLASHBACK] DAY </b>
What was your business with Lateesha that day?
That's the rumor on the street.
Are you aware that Lateesha Rodriguez has been running a counterfeit driver's license racket?
Mr. Weiss was very generous in turning over some video tapes to the FBI. There's lots of footage of you. We know everything. If you don't come clean... the information on these tapes could send you to prison for a very long time.
He's a reality television producer. His name is Mark Weiss.
He sent us out to the Fender Compound. Out in the desert near the Chicken Ranch.
You then learned where the thieves had hidden the money... and at the instructions of your employer went to retrieve it yourself.
Is it true that you were hired to track down and capture the thieves... and then deliver them to Drake Bishop... owner of the Stratosphere Hotel & Casino?
You're trying to scare me into falsely incriminating myself... and it's not working. I said I'd tell you everything I know. You and your friends behind the mirror.
I think that you're lying. I think you know exactly where the money is.
I don't know.
Where is the money?
<i>The driver's name was Locus Fender. We know that he was in on the heist.</i> <b> INT. ARMORED CAR -- NEXT </b> LOCUS FENDER is behind the wheel of the armored car. His unshaven, disheveled appearance looks totally out of place in his security uniform. <b> INT. VEGAS SECURITY LOCKDOWN -- NIGHT </b> Taryn is now scrawling notes on a pad.
<i>Here's the part where I'm supposed to get all defensive and say... 'not until I speak with my attorney.'</i>
Ms. Harvey... my name is Taryn Miles. I'm a criminal psychologist working for the FBI. I'm here to ask you a few questions.
<i>Mescaline.</i> <b> INT. CAST WINNEBAGO -- NIGHT </b> Domino and the others are all drinking coffee. Alf stares out through the windshield at the GLOW of Vegas in the distance.
Cock-fuckers are gonna pay.
Fuck 'em. Their loss is our gain. Put the money in the safe until we hear from Claremont. <b>
<i>Either this was some kind of set up... or the First Ladies got scared... decided to pull out and cut their losses.</i>
Yeah. <b> INT. FENDER HOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER </b>
Is that the decoder?
Turn over your weapon, Edna!
LOCUS! BABY... I'M HERE!
HE'S STILL ALIVE, EDNA!
Nice to see you again, Edna.
Is that you, Domino?
Chi-Chi has gone to doggie heaven, bitch!
<i>That's my best friend. His name is Choco. He's always fancied me... but too shy to ever do anything about it.</i>
<i>It was the beginning of the end.</i>
God help us. God help us all.
He used to date Pat Benatar!
<i>Whatever.</i> He's a criminal. And this Ed Martin character is a complete loser.
It's Choco. And he's not my boyfriend. He's a bounty hunter.
So who is this <i>Choko?</i> Is he your new boyfriend?
Cunt. It's just a word. Why does everyone in this fucking country get their knickers in a twist by the slightest bit of indecent conversation?
I said stop it.
Must you use that awful word?
I refuse to turn out like them. Twenty-one years old and they're already looking for a husband. Stupid fucking cunts with no self- esteem. They let the boys control their lives. Not me.
Crypto-fascist? Who talks like this?!
The mold? I am living among these crypto-fascist Orange County cunts... with daddy's BMW and the boob job... just waiting to implode.
Why must you fight... everything that is normal? You are blessed with such beauty. Life could be so easy... if only you allowed yourself to fit the mold.
Everything. It is a ghastly existence.
Be kind to your sitter.
<i>After dad passed on, Mum's agenda was to hit the town and find another husband with a boatload of cash.</i> <b> INT. LONDON APARTMENT -- EVENING </b> Sophie is dolled up for a night on the town... CLEAVAGE spilling out of her cocktail dress. Domino is feeding her pet GOLDFISH. "THUNDERBIRDS" plays on the television.
Then so be it. If you believe what that Indian said we were fucked either way.
We are so fucked.
<i>Turned out Edna. had one last trick up her sleeve.</i> <b> INT. FENDER COMPOUND -- KITCHEN -- [FLASHBACK] TEN MINUTES AGO
Make us a pot of coffee, Edna. It's gonna be a long night. <b> EXT. FENDER COMPOUND -- MOMENTS LATER </b> Edna stands next to her MAIMED SON near the burning barrels as they watch the Winnebago drive off into the desert. Locus is sobbing... latching onto his mother's sweater.
He said... take his right arm.
What did he say about the arm?
Claremont said we deliver the First Ladies in Needles. Then we go home. No questions asked.
Something is going down. Something bad.
No. What's the big deal?
What do you mean? Claremont didn't provide them?
There are no bond certificates.
Where are the bond certificates for the First Ladies?
You have sixty seconds... here's the question... Which one of you is Frances?
Everyone... please give Domino her space. Step back, please!
YOU'RE UNDER ARREST.
Cool it, Choco.
You're wearing eyeliner. You look like a queen.
Can you tell?
<i>We gotta go to work, Domino.</i>
<i>I was asleep in mum's guest house.</i> <b> INT. SOPHIE THOMAS MANSION -- BEDROOM -- NEXT </b> Domino is asleep in bed. The TELEPHONE rings.
<i>Mum was terrified for me. She didn't approve of my lifestyle one bit.</i>
What the fuck is your problem? Bitch!! <b> INT. SOPHIE TROMAS MANSION -- KITCHEN -- DAY </b> Domino is loading her GUN at the kitchen table as Sophie serves breakfast. Domino wolfs it down.
I found him pan-handling on Third Street Promenade. Took him under my wing. We been hunting together ever since.
How did you meet Choco?
We dated off and on for two years. But life on the road is tough. The pressure of the tour... relationships within a band... sometimes it leads to jealousy.
Oh my God... you mean... the two of you dated?!
Yeah?! Well... I loved her too.
I... <i>love...</i> Pat Benatar.
Yeah. I played base guitar for Pat Benatar.
Really? Did you play in a band?
I was a musician.
So Ed. What did you do before you became a bounty hunter?
No last names. Just Domino. The less you know about me the better, okay?
Domino. Do you have a last name... Domino?
You can save that Pretty Woman shit. The name is Domino.
Because I want justice. I want to help put these sleazebags back in jail where they belong. And I want to have a little fun.
You want to be a bounty hunter. Why does a pretty little thing like you want to be a bounty hunter?
Where the fuck do you think you're going?
What the... <i>who is this bitch?</i> <b> EXT. HAWTHORNE COMMUNITY CENTER -- PARKING LOT -- NEXT </b> Ed and Choco exit the El Camino just as Domino retrieves her knife from the windshield. She grips it in her right hand... threatening them.
Wow. Laurence Harvey. He knew Frank Sinatra? I knew Frank.
<i>My real father was an actor. He died when I was a little girl.</i>
I can certainly think of one more!
Don't fuck with us, Edna! There are at least three more limbs where that one came from!
...THEN SHUT THE FUCK UP!
Do you know where Danang is?
Son, with the exception of Spring Break in Tijuana, have you ever ventured outside of California?
Three tours? Isn't that... <i>twelve years?</i>
SPEAK ENGLISH! JESUS CHRIST WE'RE ON TELEVISION HERE!
Uhhh... I have no idea what you just said.
Just shut up and do what they say. They're gonna kill us if we don't, Ian.
We didn't sign on for this shit. Fuck! This shit is intense. I need to call my agent.
Twice a night, sometimes.
And he used to fuck a Playboy centerfold every night.
Listen, dick-fuck. I had a good run while it lasted. Now I've got ten million in the bank. <i>I'll never have to work again for the rest of my life.</i>
They're gonna edit it together out of sequence so it's more exciting. <b> EXT. BEVERLY HILLS -- LATER ON
They need to get the introduction on camera. Just play along, alright?
Fucking Map Quest. <i>Never again.</i> <b> EXT. DOWNTOWN GARAGE ROOFTOP -- NEXT </b> Ziering and Green approach a LARGE TENT. The WINNEBAGO is parked off to the side. Alf is inside... doing something with a WELDER on the front of the RV.
She went up to her room.
Where is Domino?
We should sign her to a talent holding deal. <b> INT. KEG HOUSE -- FRANCES' ROOM -- NEXT
This girl is going to be a star. She just tells it like it is.
Exactly. Why don't you leave the guns behind this time? Go in with only batons, brass knuckles, and numb-chucks.
But real. This is gritty. Like Cassavetes.
Fast and or furious.
We're covered on legal with that, right?
We can't lose focus of Domino's journey, Mark.
Your theory is valid... <i>in theory.</i>
This could break new ground in terms of traditional host models. It's self-reflexive reality television.
Send her through to the conference room. <b> INT. FOX TELEVISION STUDIOS -- LOBBY -- NEXT
Okay. Domino Harvey is here.
Get Cynthia on the line. <i>They changed the fucking font.</i>
Meeka's white blood cell count is dropping fast.
<i>The tough get going.</i>
Just like Billy Ocean says. <i>When the going gets tough...</i>
<i>House is a wreck/ Gotta collect my check/ Gotta perfume my neck/ But keep yo hands off the weave cuz this black bitch don't suck the dick.</i>
<i>Gotta strip/ Gotta give some lip/ Gotta make my tip/ But keep yo hands to yourself - Cuz you ain't touching these tits.</i>
Ain't nobody gonna call me a bitch without some payback.
You were good.
Ya back is got.
You got my back.
That's what I'm talkin' 'bout. That's what I'm talkin' 'bout.
We shouldn't buy a single slice, spend a single penny in that motherfucker till some people of color are put up in there.
Talk to me.
He makes all his money off us Black people and I don't see nuthin' but Italians all up in there, Sylvester Stallone and motherfuckers. Ya see what I'm saying, homeboy?
I almost had to yoke him this afternoon. Tell me, tell me, Radio Raheem, to turn my music down. Didn't even say please. Who the fuck he think he is? Don Corleone and shit.
I'm trying to organize a boycott of Sal's pizza joint. Ya see what I'm saying?
Yeah, I know dat motherfucker.
Check this out. Y'know Sal's.
I don't like anything else.
I like 'em, but you don't play anything else.
You don't like Public Enemy? It's the dope shit.
Is that the only tape you got?
I be. I'm living large.
How you be?
If I wasn't a righteous Black man you'd be in serious trouble. SERIOUS.
I'm gonna leave now.
I'm under the assumption that this is a free country and one can live where he pleases.
What do you want to live in a Black neighborhood for? Motherfuck gentrification.
Who told you to buy a brownstone on my block, in my neighborhood on my side of the street?
I own a brownstone on this block.
Who told you to step on my sneakers? Who told you to walk on my side of the block? Who told you to be in my neighborhood?
I'll fuck you up quick two times.
Not only did you knock me down, you stepped on my new white Air Jordans that I just bought and that's all you can say, "Excuse me?"
Excuse me. I'm very sorry.
You almost knocked me down. The word is "excuse me."
Jade, I still love you.
I'm down, but for a worthwhile cause.
So, in other words, you are not down.
Buggin' Out, I don't mean to be disrespectful, but you can really direct your energies in a more useful way.
Yeah, I asked him. I don't want nobody in there, nobody spending good money in Sal's. He should get no mo' money from the community till he puts some Black faces up on that motherfucking wall.
Did you ask Sal?
And I--we--want some Black people up.
Every single one of those pictures is somebody Italian.
Have you noticed something about them?
Y'know all those pictures he has hanging on the Wall of Fame?
What did he do this time?
Jade, you don't know this, but I'm organizing a boycott of Sal's Famous Pizzeria.
That's not even true. I just want a slice.
It's about turning that shit off and getting the fuck outta my pizzeria.
Why it gotta be about jungle music and Africa?
Turn that JUNGLE MUSIC off. We ain't in Africa.
No, are you? We want some Black people up on the Wall of Fame.
What da fuck! Are you deaf?
What did I tell ya 'bout dem pictures?
What did I tell ya 'bout dat noise?
Boycott Sal's. Boycott Sal's.
Don't come back, either.
You a troublemaker?
Sal, that might be fine, you own this, but rarely do I see any Italian Americans eating in here. All I've ever seen is Black folks. So since we spend much money here, we do have some say.
Two dollars! Forget it!
Extra cheese is two dollars. Y'know dat.
Damn, Sal, put some more cheese on that motherfucker.
You come in here at least three times a day. You a retard? A buck fifty.
We're not hanging out. I'm being escorted back to work.
It's so nice to see a family hanging out together.
No. I'm just a struggling Black man trying to keep my dick hard in a cruel and harsh world.
No, you the man.
You the man.
You the man.
Come back in a week, it will be squashed.
I'm cool. I'm cool.
Buggin' Out, I gotta work here.
Sal, how come you ain't got no brothers up on the wall here?
How come you ain't got no brothers up?
I just wanted to know who named ya Sweet Dick Willie?
I don't know how he does it.
What can you say?
Too long! Too long. Now for the life of me, I haven't been able to figger this out. Either dem Koreans are geniuses or we Blacks are dumb.
A motherfucking year off the motherfucking boat and got a good business in our neighborhood occupying a building that had been boarded up for longer than I care to remember and I've been here a long time.
It's been about a year.
OK, but listen up. I'm gonna break it down.
Make it plain.
What was you saying?
As I was saying before we were so rudely interrupted by the finest.
Don't worry about it. But when it happens and I'm in my boat and ya black ass is drowning, don't ask me to throw you a lifesaver either.
You a dumb-ass simple motherfucker. Where did you read that?
We're still standing.
I hope the block is still standing.
Where did you sleep?
I've done that before.
Yes indeed. You almost got yourself killed last night.
Is it a good morning?
I thank you.
Maybe you shouldn't. Don't get happy. This changes nothing between you and me. You did a good thing and Mother Sister wanted to thank you for it.
I went from first to home on a bunt single, scored the winning run, the bottom of the ninth, two out, August 1, 1939, Snow Hill, Alabama. Maybe I should be heroic more often.
I wasn't trying to be a hero. I saw what was about to happen and I reacted, didn't even think. If I did, I might not have done it in second thought. Da Mayor is an old man, haven't run that fast in years.
That was a foolish act, but it was brave. That chile owes you his life.
I'm not stopping. I'm on my way.
Fool, there's a lot in this world you don't know.
I didn't know you had such beautiful hair.
One day you'll be nice to me. We might both be dead and buried, but you'll be nice. At least civil.
Hold your tongue. You don't have that much love.
Besides that. Da Mayor don't bother nobody. Nobody don't bother Da Mayor but you. Da Mayor just mind his business. I love everybody. I even love you.
You're a drunk fool.
Mother Sister, you've been talkin' 'bout me the last eighteen years. What have I ever done to you?
The evil eye doesn't work on me.
Doctor, always try to do the right thing.
Doctor, this is Da Mayor talkin'.
You got a deal.
Eddie, you're too smart for your own britches. Listen to me. How much do you want to run to the store for Da Mayor?
How would I know how much it's gonna cost if I don't know what I'm buying?
Relax, Eddie, I want you to go to the corner store. How much will it cost me?
I said my name is Eddie Lovell.
What makes Sammy run?
My name is Eddie.
What makes Sammy run?
How old are you?
I truly hope so. I'm tired of supporting a grown man.
Pretty soon I'll be making a move.
I'm getting paid...
Oh, it doesn't, huh! You got your little 250 dollars a week plus tips...
One has nuthin' to do with the other.
Stop trying to play big brother. I'm a grown woman. You gotta lotta nerve. Mookie, you can hardly pay your rent and you're gonna tell me what to do. Come off it.
I might be, but you're not welcome here.
You are too crude.
You should see the way he looks at you. All Sal wants to do is hide the salami.
I didn't stutter. You heard me.
He's completely innocent.
He's just being nice.
Over Sal, the way he talks and the way he looks at you.
What are you so worked up about?
No, you're tripping. Don't come in Sal's. Alright, read my lips.
Jade, I don't want you coming in here no mo'.
See ya around.
I'll see you out.
I'll see ya there.
Yo, I'm gone.
I'm going with you.
Hurry up and get dressed.
I didn't stutter. Take care of your responsibilities. Y'know exactly what I'm talking about.
Yeah, then ya should take better care of your responsibilities.
Don't worry 'bout me. I always get paid.
I just don't want you to lose the one job you've been able to keep, that's all. I'm carrying you as it is.
Slavery days are over. My name ain't Kunta Kinte. Sis, I don't want to argue, stop pressing me.
I think no such a thing. Sal pays you, you should work.
Later for Sal. Y'know, sometimes I think you're more concerned with him than me.
Sal's gonna be mad.
I just come home to take a quick shower.
Is this another one of your patented two-hour lunches?
How come you're not at Sal's?
I'm in here.
Later. Gotta get paid.
Do me a favor. Go to work.
Don't ya love ya brother Mookie anymore? I loves ya, Jade.
Good! Leave me alone when I'm sleeping. I'm gonna get a lock on my door, to keep ya ass outta here.
It's gonna be hot today.
Wake up? Saturday is the lone day I get to sleep late.
Don't you have enough sense not to bother people when they're sleeping?
And move to Long Island. Number Two: my ex-husband lost all my property, all my money in his scheme to build a Black business empire. Needless to say what happened, this house is it, all I got. I'm too through with yar people.
And move to Long Island...
Number One: I got some jive, late- rent-paying trifling Negroes in this house. Every year I keep threatening to sell it.
I'm not studying no Mayor. Besides, he reminds me of my least favorite peoples. My tenants and my ex- husband--Goddamn-bless his soul.
You are too cruel to Da Mayor, it isn't right.
Don't like 'em. A fan will do.
I don't know why you still haven't bought an air conditioner.
How are you holding up in this weather?
Be gentle, child. Mother Sister is an old woman.
Sorry, comb got caught.
That's why I don't fool with it. Only let you touch it...Ouch!
Yeah, me too.
Tender-headed runs in my family. You tender-headed?
I got nowhere to go. We haven't had a good sit-down for a long while.
This might take some time.
I know, Mother Sister, but I'm here now. Where's the stuff?
Jade, you're late.
Twenty! Motherfucker! Twenty!
How many you say?
D! D! D! You dumb motherfucker. Learn how to speak English first. D.
D, not C.
Twenty "C" Duracells.
Twenty "D" Duracells.
Fuck! My money!
Tell ya father he makes the best heros in Brooklyn.
That's right on time. This is my friend, Vito. His pops is Sal.
Here ya are. Keep the change.
Alright. Let me play this record while I go to work on my chicken Parmigiana hero with extra cheese and extra sauce.
Mister Seor Love Daddy, I'd like to dedicate the next record to my heart, Tina.
C'mon, don't be shy. Mmm, smells good. This is ya Love Daddy talkin' to ya, starvin' like Marvin. Say something, Mookie.
Him no white. Him no white.
Korea man is OK. Let's leave him alone.
Negroes kill me, always holdin' onto, talkin' 'bout their dicks.
Naw, that's some stupid shit. Now you know how I got that name.
ML stands for ML. That's it.
Yes you did.
Sweet Dick, I didn't mean it like that.
I didn't say nobody, I said you.
Nobody talkin' 'bout ya moms.
Why you gotta talk 'bout my moms?
ML, hold this for me.
It's a motherfucking shame.
It's Miller time. Let me go give these Koreans s'more business.
Look at those Korean motherfuckers across the street. I betcha they haven't been a year off da motherfucking boat before they opened up their own place.
Can ya dig it?
Let it be broke.
Do I have to spell it out?
That's my name.
Sweet Dick Willie.
It's a fucking shame.
Look at that.
Motherfucker wasn't saying shit.
So when is all this ice suppose to melt?
I'll be back on my feet. Soon enough.
You're raggedy as a roach. You eat the holes out of donuts.
Don't worry about it.
Fool, you're thirty cents away from a quarter. How you gonna get a boat?
Doctor, always try to do the right thing.
Doctor, this is Sal talkin'.
I can dig it. It's gonna be HOT as a motherfucker.
Yeah!...I'm goin' to the beach for the first day in fifteen years. Gonna take the day off and go to the beach.
Make dat money. Get paid.
No. What are you gonna do?
You gonna open up another Sal's Famous Pizzeria?
It's supposed to be even hotter today.
Christmas came early.
You keep it.
You only pay me two-fifty a week. I owe you fifty bucks.
Ya just got paid, so leave me the fuck alone.
My salary. Two-fifty.
How much? How much do I owe you?
You don't know shit about shit.
Do we now?
We all know you're gonna get over with the insurance money anyway! Ya know da deal.
We both do.
Fuck dat. The time is fuckin' now. Y'know I'm sorry 'bout Sal's Famous Pizzeria, but I gotta live, too. I gotta get paid.
You're right, a kid is dead, but Mook, this isn't the time.
Motherfuck a window, Radio Raheem is dead.
Don't even ask about your money. Your money wouldn't even pay for that window you smashed.
Sal, I want my money.
Mookie, I always liked you. Not the smartest kid, but you're honest. Don't make me dislike you.
I wants my money. I wants to get paid.
Whatdafuck do you want?
Where we goin'?
You must be guilty of something or you would have never come in saying the things you said.
I'm not guilty of nuthin'.
I didn't say nuthin'. You must have a guilty conscience. What are you guilty of?
Sal, if you want me to deliver any faster, get me a jet rocket or something, cuz I can't run with pizzas, all the cheese ends up on one side and shit.
No, just checking.
Yeah, do you know 'em?
Here, you gotta delivery.
Sal, just do me a favor, leave Jade alone.
Mookie, I don't know what you're talking about, plus I don't want to hear it.
Sal, I don't care if you fire me this exact minute, leave my sister alone.
Tonight, when we close.
I would like to get paid now.
You know you don't get paid till we close tonight. We're still open.
Sal, just this once, do me that solid.
Can you pay me now?
Sal, can you do me a favor?
Big deal? If that's not LOVE, I don't know what is.
Mookie! How is anybody gonna call in?
Be off in a second. Tina, I dedicated a record on Mister Seor Love Daddy's show to you.
Mookie, get offa da phone.
Run it then.
Mookie, what took you so long? I got a business to run.
I got no say over people.
Mookie, if your friends can't behave, they're not welcome.
Talk to your son.
Mookie, no cursing in the store.
Who doesn't work? Don't start no shit, won't be no shit.
Hey! What did I say?
You're to the curb. You better step off. Get a life.
Act like one then. Be a man.
I am a man.
Be a man.
Tina, I'll be right back.
You don't care about me and you definately don't care 'bout your son.
Tina, it's not like that.
Mookie, you must think I'm stupid or something. You're gonna run outta here and I won't see your black ass for another week.
To get my money.
Where are you going?
Yes, yes, Lord. Isn't this better than Haagen-Dazs butter pecan ice cream?
Tina, you don't have a forehead, you got a eight-head.
Later for you.
It's 'pose to be cold.
Lie down, please.
Of course I'm sweating. I'm burning up. It's hot, moron, only a hundred degrees in here.
Tina, you're sweating.
I'm sorry, but no rawness is jumping off tonight.
Why you gotta curse?
Mookie, I told you already it's too fucking hot to make love.
I'm gonna take off ya clothes.
Trust you? Because of trusting you we have a son. Remember your son?
Then we'll do something else.
You a blue-moon fool.
A quickie is good every once in a blue moon.
That's out. No! It's too hot! You think I'm gonna let you get some, put on your clothes, then run outta here and never see you again in who knows when?
Long enough for us to do the nasty.
How long then?
I can't be staying long anyway.
No! No! You won't come back either.
I can run out and get it.
And I really wanted some ice cream too.
I just forgot.
Your memory is really getting bad.
Shit! I forgot.
Where's the ice cream? The Hagen- Dazs butter pecan?
I've been working hard, getting paid.
How else was I going to get you here? I haven't seen you in a week.
Tina, you are too slick.
Come in then.
What took you so long? Is it hot?
Delivery from Sal's Famous Pizzeria.
Do I love you?
Bring some ice cream, I'm burning up. Do you love me?
Before I get off work.
Alright. Alright. I'll be over there sometime today.
I want you to spend some time with me. I want you to try and make this relationship work. If not, I'd rather not be bothered.
Tina, what do you want me to do?
I work too, but I still make time.
I know I haven't seen you in four days. I'm a working man.
You gold-teeth, gold-chain-wearing, fried-chicken-and-biscuit-eatin', monkey, ape, baboon, big thigh, fast-running, three-hundred-sixty- degree-basketball-dunking spade Moulan Yan.
Dago, wop, garlic-breath, guinea, pizza-slinging, spaghetti-bending, Vic Damone, Perry Como, Luciano Pavarotti, Sole Mio, nonsinging motherfucker.
Well, fuck you, too, and fuck Michael Jordan.
Fuck you, fuck pizza, and fuck Frank Sinatra, too.
Fuck you. Anyway, Minister Farrakhan always talks about the so-called "day" when the Black man will rise. "We will one day rule the earth as we did in our glorious past." You really believe that shit?
I didn't know you could read.
Y'know, I've been listening and reading 'bout Farrakhan, ya didn't know that, did you?
Pino, I think secretly that you wish you were Black. That's what I think. Vito, what do you say?
Sounds funny to me. As much as you say nigger this and nigger that, all your favorite people are "niggers."
Shut up. The Boss! Bruuucce!!!!
And not Larry Bird? Who's your favorite movie star?
Who's your favorite basketball player?
Gotta go. See ya soon. Everybody happy now?
You deaf or what?
Remember what I said.
Smack him back.
People are free to do what they wanna do.
You talk to 'em.
Who don't work? Let's see you carry six large pies up six flights of stairs. No elevator either and shit.
Give dat bum a dollar for sweeping our sidewalk. What do we pay Mookie for? He don't even work. I work harder than him and I'm your own son.
Da Mayor ain't no bum.
Pop, I don't believe this shit. We runnin' welfare or somethin'? Every day you give dat bum--
You get paid to do what we say.
Fuck dat shit. I deliver pizzas. That's what I get paid for.
You're still late.
Hello, Sal. Hello, Vito.
Mookie, late again. How many times I gotta tell you?
It's Prince. He's a Prince freak.
Pino, no joke. C'mon, answer.
Pino, I work hard like everybody in here.
We're outta here.
I'll do that.
I don't like to fight.
That's what I think.
That's what you think?
If you don't make a stand, he's gonna be beating ya like a egg for the rest of your life.
I don't know.
Y'know, Vito, I know Pino is ya brother and shit, but the next time he hits ya, the next time he touches ya, you should "house him." Kick his ass.
Ya like him, huh?
Mister Seor Love Daddy is cool.
Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I just got here. You sweep. I betcha Sal asked you first anyhow.
I love you, Black.
I love you, my brother.
Brother, Mookie, if I love you I love you, but if I hate you...
I just copped them. Let me tell you the story of Right-Hand--Left- Hand--the tale of Good and Evil.
That's the dope.
On the rebound.
I'll be back after I make this delivery.
I was going to buy a slice.
And that's exactly what I'm talkin' 'bout.
I like Mookie a lot.
Be on guard. Mookie has Pop conned already, so we have to look out for him.
So what do you want me to do?
I know so. He, them, they're not to be trusted.
You really think so?
How do you know this?
Mookie is not to be trusted. No Moulan Yan can be trusted. The first time you turn your back, boom, a knife right here. In the back.
Stop busting my balls. I said I'm listening ten fucking times already.
You listening to me?
Good. Vito, you trust that Mook too much. So does Pop.
Jesus Christ on the cross, I said I'm listening.
Good. I want you to listen.
I love you.
I know this.
My friends laugh at me all the time, laugh right in my face, tell me go feed the Moulies.
Some are OK.
Forget it, Mookie.
Fuck you and stay off the phone.
Me and you are gonna have a talk.
I ain't getting shit.
Get the broom.
See, Pop. That's just what I was talkin' about. Every single time you tell Pino to do something, he gives it to me.
Be right there, Pop. Listen to what I said.
Vito! Pino! Let's go.
Shaddup! Jade, what can I fix you?
Pop, stop lying.
'Bout time, Pop.
You're gonna be in the street with the rest of your homeboys.
So what if this is a Black neighborhood, so what if we're a minority. I've never had no trouble with dese people, don't want none either, so don't start none. This is America. Sal's Famous Pizzeria is here for good. You think you know it all? Well, you don't. I'm your father, you better remember that.
Pop, what else can I say? I don't wanna be here, they don't want us here. We should stay in our own neighborhood, stay in Bensonhurst.
I didn't think so.
I'm sick of niggers, it's a bad neighborhood. I don't like being around them, they're animals.
We don't know nuthin' else.
Then we could try something else.
Too many pizzerias already there.
Couldn't we sell this and open up a new one in our own neighborhood?
Since when do you know what's best for us?
Pop, I think we should sell this place, get outta here while we're still ahead...and alive.
Mister Radio Raheem, I can't even hear myself think. You are disturbing me and you are disturbing my customers.
Turn it off.
Twenty minutes. How come you niggers are so stupid?
Mookie, you're fucking up.
Sal's Famous Pizzeria, yeah, two large pizzas, pepperoni and anchovies, hold on... See, Pop, Mookie fucking talking on the phone and people are trying to call in orders. He's making us lose business.
That's gonna be the last time you hit Vito.
C'mere. Don't get too friendly with da Mook.
Yeah, no more ninety-minute deliveries around the corner.
I should have Vito go with you all the time.
Here, take the broom. The front needs sweeping.
Pino, relax, will ya.
Can you do better? I didn't think so. This is a respectable business. Nuthin' wrong with it. Get dat broom.
Can you do better? C'mere.
I didn't want to come to work anyway. I hate this freakin' place.
Hey! Watch it.
Vito, get a broom and sweep out front.
Pino, get a broom and sweep out front.
Good, make sure he don't jerk around.
Pop, I'm gonna go with Mookie.
Don't start on me today.
Take it easy, Pop.
Tell 'em, Pop.
Both of youse--shaddup. This is a place of business.
How ya doin', Mookie?
I'm gonna kill somebody today.
Pop asked you.
The both of youse, shaddup.
Yeah, I think.
Oh my god, are you alright?
Actually we have something for you.
Yeah, we're closed. So go away.
Guys. Give me the two fifty and go away.
I have five kids at home, I know how it works. I'm just not "it". Okay guys? Two fifty.
Yeah, you are. He touched you. You're "it" until you touch someone else.
No, I'm not it.
Actually, my name is Cindy, the accent just helps me meet boys.
CHING CHONG, What happened to your beautiful Asian accent?
I'll tell you why!
I don't get it. Why'd you make him a pirate?
... to the tune of "Only the Lonely" by Roy Orbison.
Kan maaaaw Roy Orbison kin nah mah oh che.
... flying gracefully... over the rice fields.
Sleeeeew sheek baw...
She's saying... a beautiful swan...
Ting tao kuun jahn leeka leeka powww.
Then I'm in. Just like Jerk-Off.
Baby listen, there's nothing more American than not doing anything and getting away with it.
But I came here to learn about America.
Of course, she's in on it too. Don't let her see you. Just go get that chest and show the world what Collins has been doing. I'm staying here.
Hey look, it's our teacher.
What? No! Look.
Why didn't you tell us your boyfriend was Principal Collins?
I, uh... changed for dinner. I get dressed for all my meals. Except breakfast and bath-meal. Boy, it's hot in here. Mind if I open a window?
What are you wearing?
Are you kidding? I'll be down in a "I-crapped-my-pants."
My mom wants to know if you can stay for dinner.
Are you kidding? I couldn't be more okay.
HARRY? Are you okay?
Very good. Back in a jiff.
Just down the hall.
Po, po, position...? Hey, here's thought, have you a bathroom?
What? Well now I'm in a position where I may just heed your help.
Well, I'll tell you what I think. I think she and Principal Collins are embezzling money from the school, and I think they've been doing it for years.
Sit down, I have something to tell you.
She says that she's got more important things to do now that the new mall opened.
LLOYD? What about Ms. Heller?
That's okay. Lloyd's really the one teaching the class.
I checked with the school board, she's not an accredited teacher.
Okay, there's a lot for us to go over, so it may get hard for you.
Yeah, but I'm buying.
Would you like something to drink?
Wipe your feet. My parents are totally anal.
Come over around seven.
You and Lloyd chose the class!?
We're all special. Everyone Lloyd and I chose for the class is special.
Are you trying to be funny? Or are you actually re--, re...special
Oh, you want to talk about your delicates?
Oh Harry, you're so funny. Now I have something that's kind of delicate...
Yeah. Look at this polar bear. It hasn't moved in half an hour. And those Eskimos over there...I'm sure at least one of them is a mannequin.
A-ha! I had a feeling it was all a fake.
That's because Ms. Heller doesn't want you to know this whole thing is a scam.
MS. HELLER said not to talk to you.
A field trip? Maybe I'll join you. See you tomorrow.
Tomorrow we go on a fee-eee-eee- wald twrip.
Yes, you and the whole Special Needs class.
Do you thill want to do an arwticle on me, Jethica?
Yeah, well, I'd much rather write an expose or a hard hitting investigative piece, but nothing really ever happens around here. But, I chose you and that's fine. I'm Jessica Matthews.
Four colors? Neato!
I've been assigned to write an article about you for the school paper. It was either a feature on you or the new four-color ink pens at the student store.
Yeah. How'd you know?
You're the kid who was home schooled.
Depends how you define 'new'...
Oh, yeah. I don't think they do. You're new here, right?
In the new library there.
Well I hope the carpet matches the drapes.
Famous? I've never heard of it.
Well save room for Mrs. Matthews famous baked brisket.
No, I'm fine thanks.
We've got some margarine too if you'd like to scoop it out of the tub.
Well la de da.
The name's Walter.
Then what are we doing sitting around yapping? Let's eat!
Uh... not a great first impression... Dinner's ready.
So boys, how was your first day?
Oh Lloyd, you gotta taste my Mom's pie!
Then a sleep-over is okay by me. Okay boys, eat up.
LLOYD, did you ask your parents?
Is it okay if he spends the night?
Oh, Harry, I'm so proud of you making a real friend.
Mom, you know that never works.
Maybe the treasure's a chest full of apples and bananas!
Here's your lunch. And an apple and banana for extra energy.
I know I am, Mom.
You're going to be just fine, HARRY.
You know Mom, like in the pool.
I don't follow.
Wow just like Marco Polo.
It could be anything. You're going to discover a whole new world when you get to school.
Wow, a treasure map! What's the treasure?
I'm just not ready.
Yes, Harry. I can't home school you anymore. So maybe it's time to make some new friends, some friends your own age...
Is it true what you said to Captain Rob?
Beats me. It's Jessica's Dad - she said he's really anal.
Hey, where'd you go?
No Lloyd. Chicks are for fags - I'm not going to do it.
You take her.
Well, what should we do?
Try one in a million!
She's one of a kind.
That's the one I wanted.
Damn! What are the odds?
The one on the left.
Okay. Which one do you want?
Hold up. First, we have to decide who gets who, remember? No more competition?
I don't think that'll happen. We've learned a valuable lesson we won't ever forget.
Yeah, we should never let a woman come between us again.
Ya know Harry, I think this whole experience has soured me on women.
And with that complete loser
Oh my God! She's two-timing PRINCIPAL COLLINS!
Well, that's too bad, this is his day.
He's so modest. Probably embarrassed by all the attention.
Hey there goes Principal Collins!
How could she miss this? This whole salute to Collins was her idea.
Oh, good. There's Jessica.
Roger that, Wilco.
Start the tape, Lloyd.
You're a great teacher, Lloyd.
Yeah! No more clicks and whistles! Now she speaks perfect English!
Oh my god. Can you believe your ears?
PRINCIPAL COLLINS is a greater American than George Washington will ever be.
Guys, this is much better.
LLOYD, what I'm saying is we may already have what we want.
HARRY, are we gonna build this thing or not?
Put a fork in me Harry, lets get started.
Yes. Screw George Washington. Just like Marilyn Monroe did.
HARRY, we found the real thing to be thankful for. Screw George Washington!
That's it. Build him a float for the Thanksgiving Day parade!
And like she said, do it before the parade.
She wants us to show the world what a great guy Principal Collins is.
That's what Jessica was talking about!
We never thanked him for giving us our Special Needs class.
What? What did we do?
Right. She's so proud of her boyfriend.
Something about showing the world what Principal Collins has done.
What was it Jessica wanted us to do with this chest again?
That's because Captain Rob is not a pirate. We've been through this.
That makes total sense. The treasure chest was in his office. Which means Principal Collins is a pirate! I'm surprised Captain Rob never mentioned him.
Maybe the pirate who buried this treasure chest made it. Put it on.
Hey Lloyd. This looks like another one of your mix tapes.
Do you know what this means?
I have no idea - it's full of files and documents and tapes.
I don't know who we are anymore.
Enough! Look what this cursed chest is doing to us.
It was a diamond and you swallowed it.
I... found that rock.
But I ate your Mom's pie.
I made the polar bear pants.
I lugged it all over town!
But my mom gave me the map.
How true. But I still feel I deserve more than you do of this treasure. I mean, I found it.
You know Lloyd, the real treasure is our friendship.
Me, too. This is my favorite part of the tape.
Well, I'm listening now.
Three words. I did. But you were all mad at me and wouldn't listen.
You found my treasure? Why didn't you tell me.
You thinking what I'm thinking?
Hey, look. Ice cream.
He must be on his way to pee out a fire.
Hey, let's go spy on them.
He's like the Pope. Like we're gonna snake a girl away from the Pope.
No wonder we both struck out with her. Who can compete with the sexual power of the man who occupies the highest office in the land?
Now it makes total sense why she didn't want him to know we were in his office the other night.
PRINCIPAL COLLINS is her boyfriend!
That must be her boyfriend's car.
Hey, it's Jessica.
It's okay. I want the rush.
Sorry, no further questions.
I know I did.
You certainly did.
Yeah, that's why I asked.
If you have to ask, you don't know.
What do you mean? We can't go in there or we'll be "it".
Wow, we built a whole float in one afternoon. And now the reward.
Hello, he only invented money!
Nothing. Why, whaddya hear?
No. What happened?
By the way, did Captain Rob mention how I beat the crap out of him this afternoon?
The answer is George Jefferson.
Me, me, me!
No one knows?
You wouldn't get it. Just a private joke between best friends.
HARRY, would you like to share with the rest of us what's so funny?
Oh, telling inside jokes now, are we? That's it. You're out of the cool crowd. Next time Turk's passing out wedgies, you ain't gettin' one.
Good one, Captain Rob. He does look like a you-know-what.
Hey, there's no reason to use that kind of language!
Yeah, he does sound like a rat fink.
Captain Rob came back?
Do you hear something, Captain Rob?
JESSICA and I are through. I couldn't stand being with her knowing you liked her. It wasn't worth our friendship. Oh, and she also has a boyfriend.
Yeah, right. Why don't you show it to your "girlfriend"?
Did you hear what I said? The treasure! Like on your map!
Go away, assface.
HARRY! I found the treasure!
You're right. Hey, thanks for the jet pack. Your fantasies are so much cooler than mine. Bye Mom.
HARRY, this is my fantasy! I suggest you leave - before I imagine something horrible.
LLOYD, what are you doing? That's JESSICA and... my mom.
So, have you given him "some" yet?
Sure, I like a woman with some meat on her bones.
What are you staring at, you ugly monkey?
Now what are you staring at, you ugly monkey?
Don't snap at me like that. You're lucky I don't punch you right in the face.
Don't snap at me like that. You're lucky I don't punch you right in the face.
I bet you want your head scratched.
I bet you want your head scratched.
Do you want me to pet your head?
Hey, where did you come from?
Hey, where did you come from?
You have beautiful eyes.
You have beautiful eyes.
HARRY, can you hear me?
Good - thanks Lloyd! I'll meet you downstairs, I gotta find some clothes.
Okay, I saw this in a movie once. Open the dining room window and follow my lead. Say what I say.
She wants me to stay for dinner, I don't know what to say to her.
You're always your harshest critic.
I don't think so.
I'm sure you're overreacting.
I kinda screwed things up.
Just wanted to see how your doing.
Oh hey Lloyd, why are you here?
Alright, if you really want to go down this road, well girl's like chocolate.
It's really not up to you, Harry. But we just want you to feel like you're part of the decision.
You can't marry my mom.
Sure I do. On one condition.
Come on, Lloyd. You must know someone I can talk to.
You know... She's gonna be all over you like a barrel of monkeys, with her tight shirt and short skirt... Eeeww, it's so faggy I can't even talk about it.
Oh yeah, buddy, you're gonna get "some".
I think she wants me to come over to put me into the right position to check out her delicates, what ever that means.
Who cares? Chicks are for fags.
Sorry about that Harry, first time I've brought a friend up there. You okay?
Well, I could go for a tall glass of polar bear milk right now.
That's a cow, Harry.
I'm kidding! Of course I'll be your partner.
Oh. Sorry. You're right, field trip partner is a big commitment.
You and me? Dream on, desperado.
Well... Uh...maybe... jeez, how can I say this... you and I could...perhaps ...maybe...uh... partner up?
I don't know. I haven't decided yet.
Who's your partner?
Sucks for you.
Uh oh. Captain Rob's always been my partner.
Nope. I was right.
Duh. The cool kids sit in the back of the bus. Here, every row is in the back. We're all cool!
How do you know it's for us?
Our own special bus.
Yeah, but we still haven't found any treasure.
According to the map, we're just about at school.
HARRY! Here he comes.
Oh... that makes much more sense. I had a heck of time getting these drapes from my mom. You don't want to know where I put the cord.
HARRY, I said don't 'dress like a Queen'!
...cause you said...
Sorry. Why are you dressed like a Queen!?
LLOYD, where've you been? I've been waiting forever. I'm so embarrassed.
What a nerd. I don't know where that girl's ever gonna find a husband.
There she goes, now wearing nothing but her underwear.
And my mouph is frozen.
Put some ice on it.
My head is suddenly killing me. Maybe it's from all the learning today.
Maybe I should go home and grade papers. Owwww.
I don't know. Owwww.
Ow... What do you want to do, HARRY?
That's why you have to drink it fast, trust me.
These are really cold, huh?
HARRY, he can and he did. And now it's on like Donkey Kong.
Can he do that?
Oh! Ho! Okay. You wanna go?
Oh, no. You're not gettin' me again.
They can't be real.
And he invented fire.
A. Slushee. Don't tell me. Abraham Slushee. Third president of the United States.
When you live in the basement of the school, you breathe in a lot of chalk dust. It writes out all the answers on your brain. Now how about a slushee?
Hey, teach, how'd you get so smart?
Welcome to public school, my friend.
I didn't know that.
The pilgrim who used penicillin to kill Godzilla.
...and who was Benjamin Franklin again?
Don't look directly at him.
What's with horse-boy, now he's a bright shiny sun?
Okay. Anyone else have any questions?
You look familiar. Did I have your brother?
Now you see why he was elected principal?
Collins is a great man!
Shut up Lloyd. You're not married yet.
That would be me, sir. The wife made stew last night.
I learned it from listening to you! I hate you!
Where did you learn that word?
Shut Up! Buttlick!
You take that back!
You're not my real dad.
I will stop this car right now.
Don't use that tone with me, young man.
I can't help my heart. And when I'm your dad, you'll have to do as I say.
LLOYD, she's my mom.
Who knows? Maybe someday I'll be your new daddy.
She did not.
Your mom made a move on me.
Whoa. What was that?
A-ha! You landed on Candyland! Now swallow it!
If he heard you talking like that he'd make you walk the plank. Three, two, one. Now it's your turn, spin.
Exactly! A pirate!
Yeah, go-cart accident.
I don't think so. This guy drinks rum from a barrel, says "yo ho ho" has a peg leg...
Yeah, he's a pirate.
What? No no. He's got a parrot on his shoulder, buries treasure...
Sounds like a pirate.
No! Captain Rob is seven feet tall, wears an eye patch, got a hook for a hand...
I know the type. Lives in the basement, smells like a sponge...
Just a guy I hang out with.
Who's Captain Rob?
Oh, yeah. Well I almost always beat Captain Rob.
Got any crazy eights?
JESSICA? Please hold for my reaction.
Maybe we should ask Jessica to join the class.
Now that's more of what we're looking for.
Wow! It's a half-boy, half-horse. The boys walk up to him, impressed.
HARRY, what are you doing? She's a foreign exchange student. She doesn't speak the English. CHING CHONG ching chingy chingy chong chong.
...oh also, we even have a slogan. 'S' and 'P' stands for 'Special People', which is the kind of kids we are. 'A' and 'Z' is for 'Aren't Zeros' because that is less then one, and when you put it all together it spells...
And nobody will make fun of your horrible deformity.
We're part of a special class taught by the lunch lady, er, I mean Ms. Heller. Maybe you'd like to join us, it doesn't require any walking.
You brave soldier.
One day they'll find a cure.
Oh, of course.
The second R is silent.
H A R R Y...
It'll be like taking candy from a stranger.
Sure, but first we have to find kids special, needy and classy enough to be in Special Needs.
Can we eat there tomorrow?
No, I just usually eat my lunch on the crapper. Saves time. Out with the old, in with the new.
Oh, is this your special place?
You know, you're the first person I've brought here.
Who's Principal Collins?
Shift to your left.
God, she's beautiful. My wiener's all tingly.
Yeah, he's aces. Thanks, Turk!
Yeah, it's nice. And your friend TURK is totally great.
You know Harry, this is my favorite time of day.
How nerdy is that? I'm wearing two pairs right now.
Oh my gosh, I don't think she's even wearing underwear!
Well, besides cooties and other medical reasons, they're not in the cool crowd. Which I am, and you want to be. Know what I mean?
No no no no no.
Don't we want them to talk to us?
Yeah, dangerous cult. Don't make eye contact or they might talk to you.
I don't know. I'm pretty familiar with the school and I've never seen that "X". But... I do know something.
My mom says the treasure's somewhere in the school.
No, it's a treasure map.
Is that what I think it is?
I think it's just over there.
I go to school where I live.
Home school? What's that?
Home school. Til today.
I haven't seen you around here before.
Here I am bragging my Mom is the tooth fairy, and I'm talking to Santa's kid!
No, that's not it. Anyway - LLOYD Christmas.
Probably because we've never met.
No thanks, not hungry. Harry Dunne. Why does that name not sound familiar?
Yeah, she must do all the flying around when I'm asleep. HARRY Dunne.
Your mom is the tooth fairy? That is so cool!
That's stupid! I happen to know my mom is the tooth fairy.
You could've saved that for the tooth fairy!
I wouldn't know. Being that I'm just the teacher and all.
Look Ms. Heller, there's something fishy here, and I don't think it's Friday's special.
I thought I told you to get lost.
You mean the lunch room?
Dietician! This interview is over. You can have the camera back tomorrow. Come by the classroom. Heller heads off.
Why are you teaching Special Needs? You're the lunch lady.
Oh, you're good.
Are you wearing a coconut bra?
So can I come along?
Nevertheless, you could have mentioned the sauce. Well, I see you have a camera.
Well, when 200 students are hospitalized with stomach cramps I think it's newsworthy.
I'm not interested. Not after the smear story you did on my chicken sushi.
MS. HELLER, mind if I tag along on your field trip? I'm thinking of doing a story on your special needs class.
Don't play with me dear, you're way out of your league.
THAT'S NOT YOUR TAPE.
Then where did you get this not my tape.
That's not your tape.
Well, what have we here? It appears be a tape.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I'm going to ask you one last time and if I don't get an answer, I don't even want to think about the consequences which would be frightening to say the least. Where's my chest, Jessica?
Not to expect you tonight.
So what did you say to my parents on the phone?
One phone call from the principal will take care of that, my dear.
My parents are going to wonder where I am.
Oh I think you do.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Poor question. Too wordy. A good question gets right to the point. Example, where's my chest?
Last year Toby was in A.P. English. And Lewis won the Science Fair. What are they doing in Special Needs?
You had some questions.
And, Ching Chong, you're not a Special Needs kid. You're just a foreign exchange student.
You're just jealous.
Being a jerk doesn't make you special.
Special Needs class.
TURK, what are you doing here?
TURK, leave him alone. You're coming too.
TURK, leave him alone.
Principal of jail. Wow. What a promotion.
He's going to be in jail for a long time.
"My dream date with Principal Collins."
Don't worry about me, I'll be fine. I can take care of myself and I'm getting the story every high school reporter dreams of.
HARRY's treasure chest? Sure. I know where that is.
LLOYD, when we were in Principal Collins's office, did you see any kind of chest?
... If I may quote the twentieth century poet - Joe Piscahpo: You look Marvelous...
Looks like the best man won.
HARRY! Lloyd! You guys are a mess.
Thanks, Lloyd. But I didn't find what I was looking for. Oh can you do me a favor and clean up? Collins can't know we were here.
Boyfriend? What about all that talk about riding my waxer?
That's my boyfriend.
This is so embarrassing, it's never happened before. Well, maybe a couple of times, but I was alone.
No, it was a complete waste of time.
That was fast. Well, did you at least enjoy it?
That's it. I'm done.
Me too. I'm almost there.
I'm so close I can feel it.
Let's just do it and get out of here.
What are you doing?
So no small talk? Good, 'cause I don't know how to make that. Yep. Small talk. Not for me. Not a fan. Got any hobbies? How 'bout this weather?
Uh, thanks. God I'm so excited! So, are you ready to take me to the principal's office? He whips out the key, she takes it.
Maybe it's this mix tape I made you. Or maybe these flowers. He gives Jessica the flowers and tape.
Well, something stinks.
Oh, go on.
Oh, baby, you're the bestest.
So, when can we do it?
Principal's office? Yeah, I guess I can swing that.
So could you get us into the principal's office?
Come on, I live with the janitor. I have a key to every room in the school.
Where'd that come from? He holds up a giant key chain.
I know, you want go for a ride.
HARRY and I have been talking about school. In fact, I want to ask you something.
You know, "some". The fag stuff.
Oh Harry's doing just fine, he's just about to open up.
Checking up on my friend, Harry.
What are you doing here?
Do you want me to pet your head?
Well I was born in St. Louis.
Don't answer me. Say what I say.
This school's never had one before. I'd like to talk to you and all your special friends.
Why ith dat newth?
Oh no, I know that class isn't for me. But I'm happy for you guys.
If dou're trying to get in, dou're doo late.
HARRY, I heard Collins has you in some kind of special class.
I'll talk to you later.
Hey, Turk rescued you from the nerd. You're in!
What are you talking about?
So I'm an "arrrrrs-hole", eh Captain Rob?
Can you believe it?
You really are a pirate.
I don't know if you'd call us "friends"...
Oh my God, it's really you. You're HARRY's friend, right?
Duh. I'm in your class at school.
Do I know you?
You were born free and free you should remain.
Well I need to get a job and you're telling me that if I join up - I can really come and go whenever I want?
You can bring whatever you want, little friend.
Wait a minute. I can spend the whole year in a class taught by the lunch lady? Can I bring my girlfriend?
That's the downside. There is none.
How much homework is there?
Of course it does. Obviously in denial. Maybe we can help.
What? It's nothing, the cast comes off in six weeks.
Hello, little orphan boy. What happened to you?
Fine. Give me the doll hairs.
Ha! I said "doll-hairs." Psych! But a deal's a deal, my friend. In you go.
Yeah, deal. Give me the two dollars.
Do we have a deal?
Go in there and get us two slushees.
It's too close to call. Okay next contest, now lets...
How was that?
Oh yeah, give it to me.
You know I do!
Have you got what I want?
Oh honey, I wouldn't miss this for the world.
Mrs. D! I was hoping you'd show up.
Hey can be on top?
Hey you two. Lights out.
I liked it a lot.
It was meatloaf. You just put everything in your soup.
Well he missed a great pot of stew!
He passed away three years ago.
Thanks for the grub, Mrs. D. Where's Mr. D?
I reckon so.
So I guess you'll need a new spot for your moonshine.
My boy's special, well how about that. I knew you were different.
We're not crazy. We're "special". PRINCIPAL COLLINS wants us to have our own classroom!
What are you crazy kids doing in my tool shed?
Class, please study on your own. There seems to be a family emergency because there's no other reason why my father would interrupt me WHILE I'M WORKING!
LLOYD, may I see you a minute?
Senior year. My little boy. Who woulda thunk it? You're a good kid, Lloyd. I don't say it enough, but I'm proud of you son.
So miss snoopy reporter girl, it appears that you've snooped yourself into a corner and snoopcuffed yourself to a desk. Whose wearing the Coconut bra now?
Or maybe crossing a river!
That's not bad. How about a float of George Washington crossing the Delaware?
People! Come on. "Parade" float.
Sorry, Ms. Heller. I think they're used to me teaching.
Will that be on the midterm?
Your assignment is to pick the class. Find some other students just as special as you.
What the hell are you talking about?
Damn right I did it. Went back and set the house on fire, his little floozy testified in court - and I ended up doing ten years at Rikers, got my teeth knocked out by Mike the Dyke.
I think you did it.
No, it actually fit quite nicely. Well, except for the fact that it wasn't really as long as it was wide.
Ha! Too big to make the turn!
You bet I left him, took the dog and we was history.
Left here! Left!
Oh, yeah he was straight all right, just wasn't very good in the sack. I used to give him directions. Higher, lower, faster, harder, small circles, do the alphabet. Useless.
That's great, now make a left, then straight!
Uh, no and I don't appreciate...turn down here!
He was a big loser! What are you deaf!?
Loser... oh yeah he was a loser alright. A big loser.
Looking for a scoop, huh? I'll give you a scoop... of short bus. Lose her!
Museum huh, haven't been there since my husband left me. I love art.
Let's go Margie. The museum ain't going to teach itself.
But we don't drink from the house do we.
I can turn on all the faucets in my house. Even the hose.
Yes you are.
I am strong!
Yeah, I get it. Don't worry I studied acting at the police academy just let me do the talking and you'll be fine.
Well you know Detective, he's expecting 'Moffit' to be someone who has... certain... well...
I don't think he'll smell anything - just make sure he takes the check. I've been through this a hundred times.
Collins can be a pretty crafty guy, what do I do if he smells the trap.
Sure you can. We gotta nail this guy. You'll be fine.
I'm not sure if I can do this.
No... no it's not horse, you see I sold the horse.
This is horse?
Well there's a reason why that mascot isn't a stallion anymore.
I sold all the wind instruments. Hawaiian Air, business class. And you like that new fur coat?
This band sounds terrible.
Yes. So as soon as Zimmer shows up, we'll get our check and blow this pop stand before anyone finds out anything.
So the chest is still out there somewhere.
Why don't you see to it the kids are ready for the parade tomorrow. I have to pay somebody a little visit.
Are you going to kill her?
Okay, I'll take care of Jessica.
She's been snooping around a lot, asking questions.
JESSICA. Are you sure?
It was Jessica. That girl who tried to follow me on the field trip.
No you don't know who stole it. Just let me do the thinking.
Wait a minute, I think I know who stole it.
I don't know where it is. It's not here. It's been stolen.
Where is it?
Sweetheart keep up with me for half a minute. The evidence of every scam we ever pulled. The evidence that's going to put us away for twenty years.
The evidence of what?
The documents. The photos! The tapes! The evidence.
The chest! The chest that I put my papers in.
Baby, I'm going to spend the morning at the mall. You know, shop for Waikiki. Honey, what are you looking for?
Just like the President.
Oh, just like the President.
Everything. Just for the record.
Oh, things. Photos. Tapes. I tape everything that goes on in this office.
So what do you keep in there?
Monkey, this is too exciting! I can't believe our dream is coming true.
No. No. I heard from Superintendent ZIMMER this morning and evidently he's so impressed with our Special Needs class, he's bringing Richard MOFFIT himself to the Thanksgiving Day parade- check in hand.
You got the Extender?
Well I've got a little surprise for you.
It's a surprise.
Guess what"s under these coconuts.
And you are great in bed.
Wow, you are smart.
And, take some more pictures.
So far so good. We'll need more pictures. Why don't you take them on a field trip tomorrow.
To take a picture for Superintendent Zimmer?
I think you'll make a good teacher.
Oh wow. Look at you.
Aloha means hello and goodbye.
You said "aloha" twice.
Maybe someday. Aloha cold weather, aloha hot weather.
We start our own class?
No. No. That's not it. We don't kill him. We don't kill anybody. But I like the way you're thinking. You're focused and you're trying to follow. No, what we need to do is start a fake Special Needs class.
Oh, this is fantastic. So all we have to do is kill this Moffit guy and we get all the money!
Anyway, the state is giving a hundred thousand dollars in his name to every school that has a Special Needs class.
Yes, it's the big potato. Just have a look at this.
It's the big potato.
Small potatoes. This one is big time. This is visionary. This idea is genius.
How baby-cakes? You've done it all.
You know honey, I've finally figured out a way of bilking enough money from the school to get us that condo in Waikiki.
And I you.
God, I've missed you.
Good. Good. Good. Well, that's good.
... and, Principal Collins, you'll be pleased to know that this year Wednesdays are "South of the Border" days. We'll serve a spicy tuna tamale along with a cheese quesadilla.
You killed the doctor too soon, you fool!
The ring?... he was brought to us as is, Baron. I...
It was Feyd? It was Feyd! Where is the ducal signet ring? I must have his ring.
I made my peace gesture... the forms of Kanly have been obeyed.
He wishes to inform you that Vendetta -- as he puts it, using the ancient tongue, the art of Kanly -- is still alive. He does not wish to meet or speak with you.
What does Leto say, Piter?
The Atreides will be leaving Caladan soon, Baron, and I have here your answer from Duke Leto.
What's that you're saying?
The carryall will come and lift off the spice harvester. Try and get in close over the harvester... you'll find this interesting Sire. -- The Duke accelerates the ornithopter in the direction of the harvester. Paul can SEE...
What happens now?
With your permission...
They are Fremen suits. I hope they fit well, my lord.
I understand we have you to thank for these stillsuits, Doctor.
This is my son, Paul.
I prefer the more ancient term, planetologist... Noble Born.
So you are Dr. Kynes, the Imperial Ecologist?
We are alone...
Yes, my Lord.
I am your Truthsayer, my lord... He is here, my lord.
He will not permit anyone but me to see him. You must be outside this room.... Do what you can.
Forced spice evolution of humans changes many things.... I must sit close to him.
Their minds are so.... They move in strange directions....
I shall want telepathy during his visit and a report when we're finished.
We felt his presence.
A Third Stage Guild Navigator will be here within minutes!
Do not interrupt!!! Do not speak lightly of the spice... ONE SMALL POINT...
I can assure you...
LISTEN TO ME!! The spice must flow... the spice has given me accelerated evolution for four thousand years... it has enabled you to live two hundred years... the spice helps make the sapho juice, which gives the red-lipped mentats the ability to be living computers... the secret side of spice... the water of life.
Can you hear me?... If this visit has anything to do with spice... -- The Guild Navigator shudders and swishes quite violently in his tank.
So the Harkonnens will rid you of House Atreides...
You must share with us. -- EMPEROR The Atreides house is building a secret army!... using a technique unknown to us... a technique involving sound. The Duke is becoming more popular in the Landsraad... he could threaten me.... I have ordered House Atreides to occupy Arrakis to mine the spice... thus replacing their enemies the Harkonnens.... House Atreides will not refuse because of the tremendous power they think they will gain. Then, at an appointed time Baron Harkonnen will return to Arrakis and launch a sneak attack on House Atreides... I have promised the Baron five legions of my Sardaukar terror troops.
I see two Great Houses -- House Atreides, House Harkonnen -- feuding... I see you behind it.
Oh yes? -- NAVIGATOR Better than those on Richesse.. You are transparent... I see many things... I see plans within plans.
Many machines on Ix... new machines.
Yes?... How was your journey?
We have just folded space from Ix...
That's it... spice mining... no other cloud quite like it. See the spotters over it? They're watching for wormsign... the telltale sand waves. Seismic probes on the surface, too Sire... worms can travel too deep for their waves to show... Looks like a good patch of spice.
Dust cloud ahead, Sire.
It's a high-efficiency filter and heat exchange system. Perspiration passes through the first layer and is gathered in the second. The salt is separated. Breathing and walking provide the pumping action. The reclaimed water circulates to catchpockets from which you can drink through this tube at your neck. Urine and feces are processed in the thigh pads. Should you be in the open desert, remember to breathe in through your mouth, out through the nose tubes.
The Duke is to be addresses as... -- Kynes comes forward and adjusts the Duke's suit, checking seals and pulling on straps.
Play out your little comedy while you can off-worlders...
I hope I made myself clear. You may call him "The Duke," "My lord," or "Sire." And there is a more ancient term you might keep in mind -- "Noble Born."
So, this is Leto the Just...
The Emperor's blade.
This is a Harkonnen animal. Let me, please, my Lord.
Let him stand free!
Gurney... I see Thufir Hawat among the captives. Let him stand free.
They said you were dead. They said...
Don't you trust your own eyes.
You've no need of your weapons with me Gurney Halleck.
Yes. I sensed the play in you lad, but this can no longer be play. Tomorrow we leave for Arrakis! Arrakis is real. The Harkonnens are real.
Things have been so serious here lately.
If you'd fought one whit below your abilities I'd have scratched you a good one.
Would you really have drawn my blood?
We'd have joined each other in death. However, you did seem to finally get the "mood".
Good... the slow blade penetrates the shield... but look down.
Is this what you seek?
What's gotten into Gurney? He's not faking. Paul presses forward and the fight moves quickly around the room. The smell of ozone grows stronger as the shields hit and SPARK off one another. Paul directs a parry downwards, turns, and leads Gurney against the table, plunging at just the right moment to pin Gurney against the table top with his blade right at Gurney's neck.
Not sorry enough.
I'm sorry Gurney.
Not in the mood?! Mood's a thing for cattle and love play... not fighting.
Shield practice? Gurney... we had practice -- this morning..... I'm not in the mood.
No music. I'm packing this for the crossing. Shield practice.
I must do this for Paul, but what of my unborn child?
Death may be the result.... Are you sure?
They want me to take the Water of Life... the Truthsayer drug... so dangerous, yet... we must move swiftly if we're to secure our place among these Fremen. I will try to pass within.
Sayyadina. Our Reverend Mother tells me she is too old... She has been calling through space and time for you to come and let her rest. She asks that you pass within.
Then I will teach you our way of battle.... you have the word bond of a Bene Gesserit.
Stop! Get back!! She has the weirding way. Why didn't you tell us! Great gods... if you can do this to the strongest of us you're worth ten times your weight of water. As a leader of my people I give you my bond: teach us this weirding way and you both shall have sanctuary. Your water shall mingle with our water.
I will take the boy-man... he shall have sanctuary in my tribe... -- A LOW NOTE on a dip stick is blown by one of the Fremen tribe. Jessica shifts, Paul sees it, and just as Stilgar begins a reach for his weapon, Jessica turns, slashes out, utters a SOUND, whirls again and with rock behind her holds Stilgar helpless in front of her -- her hand at his throat. Paul moves on her first move. He races up a rocky incline.
No, but many consider my training valuable.
Are you trained in the ways of the desert?
Perhaps these are the ones Mapes told us of.
My lady, when one has lived with prophecy for so long, the moment of revelation is a shock.
Maker?... Maker is the key word... the tooth of the worm? That was close... Did you think that I, knowing the mysteries of the Great Mother, would not know the maker?
Here is why this Fremen has taken service with me, to ask that one question. Delay is as dangerous as the wrong answer. Shadout is Chakobsa... knife, in Chakobsa is... maker of death. It's a maker...
Say it not lightly... Do you know its meaning?
It could only be one thing.... It's a crysknife.
Do you know this my lady?
That's it! The Missionaria Protectiva has been here planting protective legends against a day of Bene Gesserit need. And that day has come. I must play out this sham. I know the Dark things and the way of the Great Mother. Miseces prejin.
As the legend says.
I know the Bhotani Jib and Chakobsa, all the hunting languages.
You know the ancient tongues?
You saw a part of what the race needs in the beginning. In time you perverted the truth. You sought to control human breeding and intermix a select few according to a selfish master plan. How little you understand.
Stop him yourself.
Someone started another thumper.... We're not alone.
What's happened?... Why did it leave?
I know the secret. The worm is the spice... the spice is the worm.
Cinnamon... the spice! Do you smell it?
I can't... I can't.
Remember... walk without rhythm and we won't attract a worm... it'll go to the thumper.
...the night is a tunnel... a hole into tomorrow... if we're to have a tomorrow...
It's further than I thought... a worm is sure to come.... I'll plant a thumper, that should divert it. -- Paul moves off into the shadows. Suddenly, Jessica SEES a burst of LIGHTNING illuminate the mountain of rock in the distant and the vast dunes before them.
You and your Bene Gesserit sisterhood... I'm not your Kwisatz Haderach... I'm something different, something unexpected! I'm a seed. I am so much more... You don't begin to know me...
You carry my unborn sister in your womb!
The spice! It's in everything here. The air, the soil, the food... It's like the Truthsayer drug..... It's a poison!!!! You knew the spice would change me. But thanks to your teachings it's changed my consciousness. I can see it... I can see it.
Listen to me!... you wanted to know about my dreams... and I've just had a waking dream... do you know why?... -- JESSICA Calm yourself/
Where are my feelings... I feel for no one...
A million deaths are not enough for Yueh...
The South Polar regions... the forbidden area. We must make it to that rock...
Where are we do you think?
I can't maintain any altitude... we'll never reach the safety of rock. Maybe that small rock.
Remove her gag!
Oh great mother! He's trying the voice. The Reverend Mother said it could save him.
Don't touch my mother...
Paul... please, Paul... listen to the Reverend Mother and do what she tells you.
What does she fear? What about my Father?
Paul, this is the Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam. She is going to... observe you... Please... -- REVEREND MOTHER Jessica, you know it must be done. I enjoin you to stand guard at the door and practice the meditation of peace.
You are about to witness something few have seen -- watch! Watch!
Bless the Maker and his water... Bless the coming and going of him. May his passage cleanse the world.
Spice!... pure un-refined spice!
To protect their territory. Vibrations attract them. -- PAUL I've registered him now... a knife is a sheath on his left arm... He's strong... a person born to command... He's hiding many things. Is there a relationship between the worms and the spice?
Why do they come?
Where there is spice and spice mining there are always worms.
Will we see a worm?
That it is. He shall know your ways as if born to them.
No one. It... seemed the proper way.
Your suit is fitted desert fashion. Who told you how to do that?
You've worn a stillsuit before?
He's hiding something.
I am a servant of the His Majesty the Emperor. I have served His Majesty on Arrakis long enough for my eyes to change.
Are you a Fremen?
Long live the fighters!
Long live the fighters!
Too bad... thought they were Harkonnen.
We surprised a band of smugglers.
Usul... these are fifteen of our fiercest fighters to serve you as your guard... the Fedaykin.
My own name is a killing word. Will it be a healing word as well?
The most lethal poison in the Universe.
The Water of Life.
Greater than treasure, Usul. We have thousands of such caches. Only a few of us know them all. When we have enough... we shall change the face of Arrakis. Listen!...
Water on Arrakis!!! I have seen this place in a dream. A treasure.
You are Paul Muad'dib, and your mother shall be a Sayyadina among us.... We welcome you.
Could I be known as Paul Muad'dib?
We call that one Muad'dib.
What do you call the mouse shadow in the second moon?
You have strength... real strength... You shall be known as Usul, which is the strength of the base of the pillar. This is your secret name in our troop. But you must choose the name of manhood which we will call you openly.
You mustn't speak of...
Stop him, Jessica!
Don't try your powers on me. Try looking into that place where you dare not look. You'll find me there staring back at you!! You Bene Gesserit have waited ninety generations to produce the one person your schemes required. Here I stand. But... I will never be yours.
They tried and died.
Did they try and fail?
... Many men have tried.
MOTHER! Tell me!
What can be done has been done.
Well he isn't... and he won't die... Tell me he won't die!
I've heard enough of my safety... What about my father?... I heard you talking. You speak as if he was dead. Well, he isn't!
I sense your teachings in him. Ignore the regular order of training. His safety requires The Voice.
They tried and died.... Jessica!
Did they try and fail?
I have heard of it. -- REVEREND MOTHER It is very dangerous... very painful. The Bene Gesserit sisterhood drink it to see within.... There is a place terrifying to us... to women. It is said a man will come... the Kwisatz Haderach... he will go where we cannot... Many men have tried...
Do you know of the Water of Life?... the Truthsayer drug?
The person who can be many places at once... the one who bridges space and time.... He will look where we cannot.
What is it?
Perhaps you are the Kwisatz Haderach.
Not all of them... I know which ones will.
Your mother wants you to tell me about your dreams. I only want to know one thing.... Do they come true?
I see the truth of it. -- REVEREND MOTHER Could he be the one?... Maybe... but will he be ours to control? You know when people speak the truth?
Pain by nerve induction... A human can resist any pain. Our test is crisis and observation.
NO!! ENOUGH!! Kull wahad! No woman child ever withstood that much. I must have wanted you to fail. Take your hand out of the box and look at it, young human.... Do it!
You feel the flesh crisping?
I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear... I will permit it to pass over me and through me. -- The Reverend Mother moves her face up to his. Her ancient face with its metal teeth gleaming inches away breathes hotly. She is smiling.
Let us say I suggest you may be human. Your awareness may be powerful enough to control your instincts. Your instincts will be to remove your hand from the box. If you do so you will die. You will feel an itching -- there... see? Now the itching becomes burning... heat, upon heat, upon heat.
Are you suggesting a Duke's son is an animal?
I hold at your neck the gom jabbar. Don't pull away or you'll feel that poison. A Duke's son must know about many poisons -- this one kills only animals.
The Voice again.
What's in the box?
We have our new army. Dr. Yueh, put the weirding module on him.
I know. But if it is a trap then why are we going?
Now remember... the first step in avoiding a trap is knowing of its existence.
The Harkonnens are our enemies, yes... but behind them, I suspect, is the Emperor. -- THUFIR You will make a formidable Duke!
Many dangers exist on Arrakis. For one, we know the Harkonnens would not have given up their CHOAM company contract so easily.
My father sent you to test me. Music then?
Yes. Perhaps he would at that.
I'd know the difference.
Those sounds could be imitated.
I heard you, Dr. Yueh and Gurney coming down the hall.
Uh, Greetings. I am the Count...
"Beg to differ?!" Hey, I'm talkin' about my duplex in Burbank!
Uh, beg to differ.
Oh, tract housing, huh? I guess I shouldn't complain about my duplex in Burbank. What a dump. Some places have a Murphy bed, this place has a Murphy <u>shower</u>. I still don't know where to hang the towels!
It is my home.
Say, that's a funny place to sleep.
Greetings. I am Slick Slomopavitz, Seeker of Adventure.
Greetings. I am the Count.
I predict we're lost.
Eddie, where are we? We passed that carwash twenty minutes ago.
YES! My father ran a mortuary -- it's an old habit!
I can't believe this! <u>I</u> sleep in coffins!
Yes. There is nothing more comfortable.
So <u>you</u> sleep in coffins?!
No. I never drink -- wine.
Bring me two more Beefeater martinis. Eddie will have another whiskey, Dagmar's a Rum-and-coke, Moustapha and King are chablis -- hey Bela, would you like a wine?
Ah, cheer up! Don't lose heart over what happened tonight. I predict that your next project will be an outstanding success!
It's a pleasure...
Mr. <u>Lugosi</u>! It is an unparalleled privilege to meet you. Allow me to introduce myself... I am CRISWELL!
No problem. I know it by heart...
I just wish you coulda seen the movie.
Eddie, I want to thank you. These last few days have been a good time.
I know none of <u>my</u> wives would've.
Yeah, she's really somethin'.
I envied him. Hell, I envied you too, having a girlfriend that would jump in front of a car like that.
Did you see that kid grab Vampira's tits?
Last night was quite a romp.
Has anyone ever been to Downey?
Eddie, how was I?
That's great. Let's do a take.
Okay. But what if I'm not in <u>too</u> big a hurry? What if I take a moment to slow down and savor the beauty of life? To smell a flower?
Uh... you're a very important and respected man. You're leaving your house... and you're in a hurry to a big social event.
Oh. So what is the scene about?
No, this is just the second unit. We'll do the main footage later.
So Eddie, don't we need a sound crew?
Soon, Bela... Soon.
Eddie, I wanna make another picture. When are we gonna make another picture?
No, you look good. And the tests came back fine. C'mon...
Really? I don't feel so great.
I've got some good news. The doctor says you're all better. You can come home.
Fine. Let them! There is no such thing as bad press. A man from New York even said he's putting me on the front page! First celebrity to ever check into rehab. When I get out of here, I will be healthy. Strong! I will be primed for my comeback!
Bela, they're parasites! They just want to exploit you.
Isn't it wonderful? After all these years, the press is showing an interest again in Bela Lugosi.
Don't worry. Everything's gonna be all right.
I'm sorry, Eddie. I'm so sorry.
Bela, I'm on your side. C'mon, give me the gun... If you give me the gun, I'll make you a drink. What are you drinking?
It'll be wonderful. We'll be at peace. In the afterlife, you don't have to worry about finding work.
Buddy, I don't know if that's such a good idea.
I'm obsolete. I have nothing to live for. Tonight, I should die. And you should come with me.
Don't you have any savings?
Eddie, I received a letter from the government. They're cutting off my unemployment. That's all I've got. Without it, I can't pay the rent...
Jesus Christ, what an evening. What happened?
I was thinking about killing myself.
What are you doing?
Norma. She changed her mind. She doesn't wanna marry me. Can you put down the gun?
Why aren't you on your honeymoon? Where's Myrna?
Shit! Bela, what's with the gun?
Why are you here??
I know it's a lot to give you at the last second.
Eddie, this is quite a scene.
I wrote something special for you. I got to thinking about all the sacrifices you've made... and so I wrote you a new final speech.
Well, there aren't too many other fellas I'd do it for...
No. Seriously. I want you to know how much I appreciate what you've done for me. A great man like you shouldn't have to run around in freezing water at four in the morning.
That's fine, Eddie. All in the line of duty.
Bela. I just wanna thank you again for last night.
Alright! Let's put it on film. CAMERA! SOUND!
Don't let me slow you down.
Bela, I've got twenty-five scenes to shoot tonight.
After I did "Dracula," the studio offered me "Frankenstein"! But I turned it down, the part wasn't sexy enough. It was too degrading for a big star like me.
Do you know I turned down "Frankenstein"?
Bela, somebody misplaced the motor. So when you wrestle the octopus, shake the legs a bit, to make it look like it's killing you.
Okay! How do we turn this thing on?
Fuck you! <u>You</u> come out here. Hey, toss me that J.D.
Once you're in it, it warms up.
Goddamn, it's cold!
Oh, for Christ's sake.
This'll look a lot better. We have to match the stock footage of the octopus underwater.
Out <u>there</u>?! What happened to the stream?
You'll be fighting with the octopus.
Let's shoot this fucker! Where do I go?
Nonsense! You look great -- Look, uh, why don't you lie down and take a little nap? We'll film around you for a while.
Eddie, I'm so tired... I don't know if I can handle a night shoot...
Correct. So instead, I stayed here, waiting for my comeback. Always hoping... the next film, the next film... that would be the one.
But maybe not.
I didn't know if it was a trick. They might arrest me and throw me in a gulag. I am Hungary's most famous emigrant. they'd use me as a lesson to anyone who tries to leave.
So why didn't you do it?
It was a very impressive offer. Fancy offices, a big home... I'd be treated like a king.
In life, the decisions that haunt you are the ones where you just don't know... where right or wrong will never be answered. Years ago, the Hungarians contacted me. The government wanted me to come home, to be Minister of Culture.
Yeah, I did.
Eddie, you screwed up.
But was it a bad decision? At the time, I thought her money would save the movie.
Bad decisions are easy to live with. Forget. Just keep looking forward.
Was I wrong to cast Loretta?
This is the Philosophical Research Society. A refuge for free thinkers. I've been coming here for twenty years.
What is this place?
Stop worrying. This is going to raise your spirits.
Bela, I don't know what I'm doin' anymore...
"Dear, you're lovely." "Strap her to the table."
That's fine, Bela. We're still rolling. Just say "Dear, you're lovely."
"Dear, you are a woman of super strength and beauty. A lovely vision of exquisitely beauty -- shit!" Damn! Eddie, I'm sorry I can't remember all this. I'm an old man. It's too long.
Okay. Then you'll be sitting on the <u>left</u>.
I'm not getting near that goddamn thing. One of those burned me on "The Return Of Chandu."
You'll be sitting on the right.
You're shooting "Bride Of The Atom." Scene 85.
Mmph? Where am I?
Bela, are you ready?
We didn't make a dime.
So how'd we do?
Forget about it. We'll make our new movie, and you'll be a star again.
I never said I could ad-lib...
Bela, don't worry. You're better than all this crap.
Ach! How do they expect a Hungarian to pronounce this dialogue? This live television is madness!
No Bela, that's "incorporates." Look, just say "This casket has..."
"Beg to differ. This casket incarpratates, er, inporporates --"
"Oh, tract housing, huh?" Laugh. "You need a new real estate agent."
"It is my home."
"Greetings. I am Slick Slomopavitz, Seeker of Adventure." Audience laughs. Applause. "Say, that's a funny place to sleep."
"Greetings. I am the Count."
Don't worry. I'll do something.
Morphine, with a demerol chaser. Eddie, I'm so broke. I don't know what I'm gonna do...
What's in the needle?
I don't know how to make goulash.
Is there anything I can get you? Water? A blanket?
Nah. This happens all the time...
Should I call a doctor?
No hospital. Just take me to the couch...
Let me take you to the hospital.
I didn't feel well...
Bela, what happened?!
I gotta type this up, while it's still fresh!
Ah! This is very exciting.
No! <u>Doctor Acula</u>! You can still wear the cape, have the fangs... but you're a doctor! Not a count.
Ha-ha! Dr. Acula!
They do? Shoot. There <u>must</u> be a way to get around that...
We can't. Those sons-a-bitches control the rights.
So let's make another "Dracula." Let's make "The Return of Dracula"!
Those bastards at Universal. I made so much money for them, and now I can't get the time of day.
Hmm... my biggest hit? That would probably be "Dracula."
But we need to start off with a bang! Something we <u>know</u> the audience will want to see. Mmm. What was your biggest hit?
That's good. I could use the money.
Sure. Romance, that's great! To engineer your comeback, we're gonna need a whole slate of pictures. Once "Glen Or Glenda" takes off, we'll slam you into one, then another, then another!
Well... can't I play the romantic part? I'm tired of always being the bad guy. You know, back in Hungary, I played Romeo! I would like to be the lover again -- me, in a boat, with the girl...
Uh, a cop. NO! You play the father. He's <u>angry</u>! He doesn't like seeing his son -- no -- he doesn't like seeing his <u>daughter</u> behave this way!
Who do I play?
Eh, forget it. What else is big? Teenagers! Jailbait pics! Yeah... You got the juvenile delinquent, his girlfriend from the wrong side of the tracks --
But, I don't like horses. Do I have to get on one?
How 'bout a western? People love westerns.
BULLSHIT! I am ready now! Roll the camera!!
Look, you seem a little agitated. Do you maybe wanna take a little break, go for a nice walk... and then we'll come back and shoot the scene?
Of course! Dracula requires <u>presence</u>. It's all in the voice, and the eyes, and the hand --
You're right, Bela. Now Dracula, <u>that's</u> a part that takes acting.
Huh?! Oh yeah, of course.
Uh, Eddie, do you have my money?
Of course! Well, we got a big day planned for you... First, we're gonna start off a little easy, with you in that armchair over there. Then, once you're up to speed and cooking, we'll reset and bring out the laboratory equipment --
I am always on time.
Bela! It's so great to see you! And eight o'clock on the dot. Right on time!
Yeah. You pull the strings -- "Pull the strings"... hey, that's pretty good!
Ah, so I pull the strings!
Well... you control everyone's fate. You're like the puppetmaster.
I don't understand.
Ehh, your part's a little different. You're like the God that looks down on all the characters, and oversees everything.
Oh, like Jekyll and Hyde! Ah, I've always wanted to play Jekyll and Hyde! I'm looking forward to this production.
Well, It's about how people have two personalities. The side they show to the world, and then the secret person they hide inside.
Eddie, what kind of movie is this?
Yeah, it's gonna be a great picture! You'll love your character! Bunny, Bela's here. Look, hit the bars, work some parties, and get me transvestites! <u>I need transvestites</u>!
Eddie, you got a new movie for me?!
Don't worry. I do it every Halloween.
Are you sure this is okay?
No thank you, Eddie. I'll be alright.
Do you want me to get it for you?
I am getting tired. I need to take my medicine.
You must be double-jointed, and you must be Hungarian. Vampira, look at me! Stare into my eyes.
Hey Bela, how do you do that?
Vampira! You will come under my spell! You will be my slave of love.
I think she's a honey. Look at those jugs.
Ugh! I hate the way she interrupts the pictures. She doesn't show 'em the proper respect.
Certainly. But now the children of the night are calling me.
Well... I guess I should go. Perhaps we could get together again?
Shh! I'm coming! I will feed you!
Take my word for it. You want to "score" with a young lady, you take her to see "Dracula."
I never thought of that.
The pure horror, it both repels and attracts them. Because in their collective unconsciousness, they have the agony of childbirth. The blood. The blood is horror.
They were <u>mythic</u>. They had a poetry to them. And you know what else? The women prefer the traditional monsters.
The old ones were much spookier. They had castles, full moons...
They don't want the classic horror films anymore. Today, it's all giant bugs, giant spiders, giant grasshoppers -- who would believe such nonsense!
No more. I haven't worked in four years. This town, it chews you up, then spits you out. I'm just an ex-bogeyman. Make a right.
But you're a big star!
Back in the old days, yes. But now -- no one give two fucks for Bela.
Ah, you gotta be jokin'! A great man like you... I'll bet you have dozens of 'em lined up.
I have no next picture.
Boy, Mr. Lugosi, you must lead such an exciting life. When is your next picture coming out?
I refuse to drive in this country. Too many madmen.
Don't you bave a car?
Oh, there's my bus. Shit, where's my transfer?!
I apologize. When I play Dracula, I put myself into a trance. It takes me much time to re-emerge.
I waited to get your autograph, but you never came outside.
I thought it was great. You were much scarier in real life than you were in the movie.
Eh, that was a terrible production. Renfield was a drunk!
You know, I saw you perform "Dracula." In Poughkeepsie, in 1938.
Yes. I'm embarking on another bus- andtruck tour of "Dracula." Twelve cities in ten days, if that's conceivable.
Because I'm planning on dying soon.
Why were you buying a coffin?
I don't want anything. I'm just a really big, big fan. I've seen all your movies.
Who are you? What do you want?
No. I don't work here.
I told you, I don't want any of your goddamn coffins.
Excuse me, Mr. Lugosi??
If you say so.
You mean a Tesla coil?
This is gonna be Bela's laboratory, so it should be real impressive! Like one of those mad scientist movies. I want beakers, and test tubes, and one of those electrical things that buzzes!
Ssh! He's so big! He's a <u>monster</u>! Can you imagine what that guy would be like in a movie?
And once I'm a woman, Jean-Claude and I are getting married --
I've never seen anything like him!
Yes! I've dreamed of it for years, but your movie made me realize I've got to take action. GOODBYE, PENIS!
Jesus! Are you serious?
WRONG! I'm getting my first series of hormone shots! And once those babies kick in, they're gonna remove my organs, and MAKE ME A WOMAN!
I dunno. Lie on the beach?
Mexico! And guess what I'm going to do there?!
I don't know. Where?
So guess where I'm going next weekend?
No, it's fine. It's real! In actuality, Lobo would struggle with that problem every day.
Hey Ed, shouldn't we do another take? Big Baldy kinda got stuck in the doorway.
I mean I can't see the difference. I'm color-blind. But I like the dark gray one.
What do you mean?
Which one <u>is</u> the red one?
Um, okay... roll camera
What's to protect? It was perfect!
Don't you want a second take, for protection?
And, CUT! PRINT IT! LET'S MOVE ON!
PLACES, EVERYONE! ROLL CAMERA!
NO! It has to be UNDERWATER!
This is kind of a stream--
You don't understand! The octopus is supposed to live in a <u>lake</u>!
You <u>can't sit</u>! You gotta walk around, with good posture. You want these people to think we have class. Otherwise they'll <u>never</u> invest in our movie.
These shoes are itchy.
What do you think you're doin'?!
Nothin'! I told him he was great.
What happened?! Jesus, Connie, what did you do?
Absolutely! It's just the beginning. I promise this: If we stick together, one day I'll make every single one of you famous.
You really think so?
This is the big moment...!
I got the early edition! It was just dropped off at the newsstand.
Yeah. It seems a little crazy, but sometimes <u>you just know</u>. She's perfect for me.
Edward, are you sure you know what you're doing?
I told you, the octopus is made of rubber. This is a piece o' cake.
Incidentally, you <u>promise</u> you're not going to scratch my car...?
My pleasure. I'm always happy to assist in a little larceny.
Cris, you made it. Thanks a lot.
Bravo! Bravo! Magnifico!
Eddie, we're in show biz! It's all about razzle-dazzle. Appearances. If you dress nice and talk well, people will swallow anything.
It's that easy?
There's no such thing as a psychic. People believe my folderol because I wear a turban and a black tuxedo.
I made it up. It's horseshit!
I don't understand.
Hey Cris, how'd you know we'd be living on Mars by 1970? How'd you know it wouldn't be 1975, or even 1980?
I'm Criswell. I know all.
H-how'd you know?!
Ah. The director of "Glen Or Glenda."
Edward Wood, Sir.
And who may you be?
Look, he doesn't have any money... but I'll give you everything I've got. I have a few hundred dollars.
No. They say his eligibility ran out years ago.
We thought Mr. Lugosi was insured though the Screen Actors Guild.
We'll do our best.
Will he be okay?
Well... there's a lot of junk in his system for such an old man. Apparently, he was addicted to morphine, tried to kick it, and got re-addicted to methadone.
Excuse me. Doctor? I'm with Mr. Lugosi. How is he?
Ed... I just stuck it out so you could finish your movie. Now that it's done, so am I.
But you used to say --
I'm tired of living on the fringe.
Did you really mean those things you said..?
Ed, it's over. I need a normal life.
Dolores, I got five days to shoot this movie. Quit kidding around.
But what's our relationship? Are we good friends, or is she just a casual acquaintance?
Oh. Er... well you're the file clerk. You're hurrying into the next room, when you bump into Janet.
Eddie, what's <u>my</u> motivation?
Hey, <u>the movie's getting made</u>. That's the main thing.
Wood Productions. The mark of quality.
None. But his dad gave me fifty grand.
Oh really? How much money did he put up?
That's Tony McCoy. He's playing Lieutenant Dick Craig.
I see the usual gang of misfits and dope addicts are here. Say, who's the lug?
Of course I'm here. Today is the file clerk's big scene.
Honey, you made it! I wasn't sure you got my message.
Does she have room for me?
I'm going to my mother's.
So WHAT?? Look, we gotta figure out where we're gonna stay.
You're a fuckin' mess.
<u>I didn't dump you</u>! Get it through your skull -- I just recast the part!
That's a good reason to dump your girlfriend.
Look, how many times can I say I'm sorry? I blew it! I thought she was rich.
That's moronic. Why would a bit player impress a backer?
Maybe if you'd come to the backers party, I would've gotten the money.
I told you this was gonna happen.
The secretary. Or the file clerk.
But there's plenty of other parts.
I wanted you to say, "No! I wrote the part for my girlfriend Dolores."
I'm sorry! What did you want me to say?
Who do you think's been paying the rent?! Who helped type your script, and did all your grunt work?!
It was the only way I could get the movie made!
All I know is, ever since "Glen Or Glenda," all you do is booze it up and wear my clothes!
Dolores, don't you understand? I'm a director now! I made "Glen Or Glenda." Directing <u>is</u> my day job.
Don't get angry at me. Maybe you just need a day job.
That's the problem! <u>Nobody</u> cares about my movie! I'm tryin' so hard, I don't know what else to do!
Ed, the landlord doesn't care.
Tell him "Bride" is in pre- production.
Ed, the landlord called again. He wants his money.
Well maybe you're not studio kind of material. Maybe you just need to raise the money yourself.
All I wanna do is tell stories. The things I find interesting...
Bela needs a job... I can't even get a film going... But <u>of course</u> I can't -- I made the worst movie of all time.
Ed, it's just one man's opinion!
I'm no good.
Toss us out on our ass.
Look on the bright side. If we miss the rent, what's the worst they can do?
But <u>you</u> do! And anyway, I've got tons of new scripts. And now that I have a track record, studios are bound to hire me!
But Ed, we're not even married. And you don't have a job.
Who cares?! We're on a ROLL! These are the moments in life you're supposed to grab.
I don't know. It's so much money...
From today on, our lives are different! We'll be swimming laps in the same pool Jean Harlow did.
Some weirdo who likes to wear dresses.
Ed, who is Daniel Davis?
Say it a little louder. I don't think Bela heard you in his trailer.
Ed, this isn't the real world! You've surrounded yourself with WEIRDOS!
Hon', nobody's bothered but you. Look around -- they couldn't care less.
How can you just walk around like that, in front of all these people?
Oh, just like in the script!
It takes me comfortable.
<u>That's not the issue</u>!! Ugh! How can you act so casual, when you're dressed like that?!
It's a damn good role.
Oh! You got nerve, buddy.
Of course it is. And that's why you should play the part.
And what about this so-called "Barbara" character? It's obviously ME! I'm so embarrassed! This is <u>our</u> <u>life</u>!
What, by putting it in a fuckin' script, for everyone to see?! What kind of sick mind would operate like that?
This is my way of telling you --
Jesus Christ! And you never told me?
Since I was a kid. My mom wanted a girl, so she used to dress me in girlie clothing. It just kinda became a habit.
How long have you been doing this?
Well, I'd really like to know what you think. Why don't you go in the bedroom and take a look at it? I'll Wait...
Ed, I'm so proud! I'll read it as soon as I get home.
So did you get his autograph?
It's a shame. He's such a rest actor, and nobody uses him anymore.
Boy, I can't even remember the last time he was in a picture.
No! He's very alive. Well... sort of. He's old, and frail -- but he's still Bela Lugosi! And he's really nice.
I thought he was dead.
Oh, the hell with you. I met BELA LUGOSI!
You met Basil Rathbone!
Close! The <u>other</u> one!
No! A horror movie star!
Who? Robert Taylor?!
Yeah! I met a movie star! Somebody <u>really big</u>!
Better than not getting a job?
Huh?! Oh, uh, no, I didn't get the job. But something <u>better</u> happened!
You got the job?!!
Sweetie, you won't believe it! I've got the most incredible news!
Aw, er, it's just a bunch of hot air. I had to say something to get in the door.
Eddie, I don't understand. Why are <u>you</u> the most qualified director for the Christine Jorgensen Story?
I know... But sometimes I get scared this is as good as it's gonna get...
Ed, you're still young. This is the part of your life when you're <u>supposed</u> to be struggling.
Orson Welles was 26 when he made "Citizen Kane." I'm already 30!
Ed, it was only one review.
Honey, what if I'm wrong? What if I just don't have it?
The ghost can be barefoot. <u>Give</u> <u>me your shoes</u>!
Dolores, give me your shoes.
You misunderstood. I gave you everything I have in the world: Three-hundred dollars.
The other sixty-thousand you said you'd give me.
What other sixty-thousand?
Yeah. Well I need the other sixty-thousand.
What are you looking at me like that for? I already gave you my three hundred.
I kinda need it now.
Well then you should pay him, shouldn't you?
Sorry to bother you while we're shooting, but the guy who owns the stage needs his money.
I don't know. Hey Bill, which dress is better for you, the green or the red one?
Eddie, which dress do you like better?
Hmm. Those sound kind of small. Oh, here's one that looks good: Janet Lawton. I'd sure like to play her.
Oh, of course!! There's a couple characters you'd be perfect for: The secretary at the newspaper office, or the file clerk!
Oh my, this is very interesting. Say... do you think it would be possible for me to maybe play one of these parts?
Perhaps you'd like to look at the photoplay.
That's all?? That seems very reasonable for an entire picture.
For this one, we need $60,000.
Perhaps a small amount of money. How much do one of your motion pictures cost?
So my associate Mr. Marco tells me you may be interested in investing in a motion picture.
Yes. Hollywood is oh so exciting.
I understand you just moved here?
Pleased to meet you. I'm Loretta King.
Well, uh, if I could I would...
He's so great, <u>you</u> hire him.
That's not true --
Yeah? Well now he's a junkie. He don't deserve to work.
No he's not! Do you realize how much money he made for this studio over the years? "Dracula"! "The Raven"! "The Black Cat"!
He's a <u>bum</u>.
Sure thing, Mr. Kravitz.
Hey big shot, get off your ass. They need a potted palm over in the Carl Laemmle Building.
Ah! Atomic Age stuff, huh? I like it. I'll tell you what, Mr. Ward. Why don't you leave those film cans, and my associates and I will take a look at your little opus. Maybe we can do business together.
Well... I've got another project I wasn't gonna tell you about. Lugosi's in it, but he's got a smaller part. The lead is an ingenue, a sterling young actress named Dolores Fuller. The title is "Bride Of The Atom."
Lugosi's washed-up. What else you got?
But Bela Lugosi's in it!
Oh, "Dr. Acula." I get it. I don't like it.
Doctor Acula? I don't get it.
Well, Mr. Feldman, I don't believe in thinking small. So I've got a whole slate of pictures for you: "The Vampire's Tomb," "The Ghoul Goes West"... and "Doctor Acula"!
I can't wait to take a look. So what's up next?
Nobody in town has seen it, so I'm givin' you first crack at my talents.
Screen Classics? Hmm, don't know them.
I just made this picture, over at Screen Classics. It opens next week.
Really?! Well good for you.
Well, Mr. Feldman, some people have resumes to show. I've got my own movie.
So what are you bringing me? Looks like you got some film cans.
Wood? Ward? Wood. Hey, what do you know. It <u>is</u> Wood. Dang secretaries, you can never get a good one. Right?
It's Wood. Ed Wood.
Mr. Ward, it's a delight to meet you.
We are gonna finish this film <u>just</u> <u>the way I want it</u>! Because you can't compromise an artist's vision!
Oh, you wanna talk about the "big picture"?! How 'bout that the policemen arrive in the daylight, but now it's suddenly night???
People won't notice. Filmmaking isn't about picky details -- it's about the big picture.
That cardboard headstone tipped over. This graveyard is obviously phony!
I like to think so.
"Perfect"? Mr. Wood, do you know <u>anything</u> about the art of film production?!
And PERFECT. CUT!
Look, Lugosi is dead and Vampira won't talk. Ihad to give <u>somebody</u> the dialogue.
What'd you give him all the lines for?? He's unintelligible!
It's plenty! It's the acorn that will grow a great oak. I'll just find a double to finish his scenes, and we'll release it as "Bela Lugosi's Final Film"
Just, it doesn't look like very much.
Yes, but I've got the last footage he ever shot!
<u>Lugosi</u>??! Didn't be pass on?
Yeah, well we've GOT a big star! Bela Lugosi!!
Um, I understand that this science friction is popular -- but don't the big hits always have big stars?
It's a guaranteed blockbuster!
I don't know... this is all a lot to absorb.
From outer space! It's science- fiction. <u>Very</u> big with the kids! If you make this picture, you'll have enough money to finance a HUNDRED religious films! <u>And</u> pay my back rent from the profits.
Graverobbers from <u>what</u>??
"Graverobbers From Outer Space"! It's <u>money in the bank</u>.
Absolutely! You see this script..?
Would that work?
Okay -- you know what you do? You produce a film in a commercially proven genre. And after it's a hit, you take the profits from <u>that</u>, and make the twelve Apostles' movies.
Oh! Our church has the money for one film. We just don't have it for all twelve...
Raising money is tough.
<u>I'm</u> interested in the picture business. My associates and I wish to produce a series of uplifting religious films, on the Apostles. But unfortunately, we don't have enough money.
You could say that --
Hmm, so you're in the picture business?
I'm real sorry. My stockbroker must have transferred the wrong account... C'mon in, I'll write you another one.
Mr. Wood, you have bounced your third and final rent check.
Mr. Wood, this is Mr. Reynolds, your landlord. Could you please open up?
What is happening?
Don't worry. We're almost there.
My eyes are killink me.
Forget her! Move on. A good lookink boy like you as you can have any girl you wish.
But I thought me and Dolores had something.
My friend, you tink Greta is first woman I ever see? No! Many duds, before I find her.
Nonsense! You must try our hot glug.
Tor, I should be getting home.
Don't worry. You just haven't met right woman yet. Oopsy. That cabbage goes right through me.
I'd be happy too, if I had such a great family.
The food will make you feel bedder. Look at me -- I'm da happiest guy I know!
Uh, I don't have much of an appetite lately.
Hey! You're not eatink.
Here's the scene. Loretta, you're in a trance. You glide in and get on the operating table. Now Tor, you're supposed to tie her down. But you have an angora fetish... and when you rub that swatch of angora, it makes you refuse so Bela has to discipline you.
But Greta say --
Tor, dialogue is overrated. You look at the classic film actors, who are they? Fairbanks. Chaplin. They didn't talk! They did it all with their face.
Bela, he talk. Loretta, she talk. But Tor, he no talk.
But Tor, it's a starring part! You're second billed.
No. She tink Lobo is waste of my time. Lobo don't talk.
Really? Was the third act too intense?
Edvard! I haf question 'bout script. My vife Greta, she read. And she no like.
Hopefully, very soon. I'm just awaiting the final okay from Mr. Feldman at MGM.
I like. When do movie shoot?
So anyway, I've got this new script, "Bride Of The Atom," and there's a part you're ideal for: "Lobo." He's tough. A brute. But he has a heart -- and at the end he saves the girl.
Nah, that doesn't matter! It's a visual medium.
But what bout accent? Some people tink I haf too much accent.
Well, I think you'd be a sensation in pictures.
No. With hair, yah. But I must shave head for wrestlink. It scare da crowds. Dey like that.
I think you're quite handsome.
Mm, not good-lookink enough.
Tor. Have you ever thought about becoming an actor?
So, Mr. Johnson --
Oh, of course!
Could we moovf to table?
Da pleasure be mine.
Glad you could fit me in your schedule.
It is when it works. You know the one film of mine I can stand to watch? "Kane." The studio hated it... but they didn't get to touch a frame. Ed, visions are worth fighting for. Why spend your life making someone else's dreams?
Mr. Welles, is it all worth it?
Tell me about it. I'm supposed to do a thriller at Universal, and they want Charlton Heston to play a <u>Mexican</u>!
And they always want to cast their buddies -- it doesn't even <u>matter</u> if they're right for the part!
Ugh, I hate when that happens.
Ain't that the truth! I've even bad producers recut my movies --
It's the damn money men. You never know who's a windbag, and who's got the goods. And then they all think <u>they're</u> a director...
I can't believe it. These sound like <u>my</u> problems!
Eh, the financing just fell through for the third time on "Don Quixote." So I'm trying to finish a promo for something else. But I can't find the soundtrack -- I think I left it in Malta.
Oh. Um, I'm Ed Wood! So, what are you working on now?
My pleasure. I'm Orson Welles.
Uh, uh, I'm a young filmmaker, and a really big fan... and I just wanted to meet you.
Excuse me, Sir...?
"Your movie"?! I wish it was your movie! I wish I hadn't blown every dime I ever made into this stinkbomb. If I ever see you again, I'll kill you!!!
You can't talk that way about my movie.
Screw you, Wood! I even sunk more money into different titles: "Transvestite" "He Or She?" "I Led Two Lives"... It DOESN'T MATTER! Nobody wants to see the piece of shit.
Maybe it needs special handling.
Because I can't sell it to save my life! You made a goddamn feathered fish. Is it an art film, a horror show, a hygiene flick? Nobody knows! I'm beggin' people to book it.
"Where's the ads"?! The ads are in Alabama, Indiana, and Missouri! You schmuck, it ain't gonna play L.A.!
I did. I established some tits and ass.
Georgie, what's with the stag footage?? You said you were cutting in <u>establishing shots</u>!
Yeah?? Well Orson Welles didn't wear angora sweaters, did he??!
But I'm proud. I wrote, directed, and starred in it just like Orson Welles in "Citizen Kane"!
And you did a bang-up job, too. But you don't want other producers to know that's you in drag. Trust me. It's a career killer.
Why?! I did all those things! Hell, I even built the props.
Good. And one more thing. I think your "Written, Directed, and Starring Ed Wood" credit is a bad idea.
Um, I guess --
They'll notice. Look, why don't you let me take over from here? I can do a few tricks: Pad it out with more stock footage, add establishing shots...
Gee, I used every frame of film we shot. Maybe they won't notice.
Ed, what was the one thing I asked you to do? Make it <u>seven reels long</u>. I've got contracts with my exhibitors. If it ain't over an hour, they won't play it.
Yeah? Whatever. So did you like it?
I think it's fifty-seven minutes long.
I know a guy in Universal's stock house -- he's giving me the footage for free. This movie's gonna look like a million bucks.
<u>Then how's it gonna get in the</u> <u>picture</u>?!
Don't worry. We're not gonna film any of it.
Ed! What's with these revised pages?! A scene in a smelting factory? A buffalo stampede?? <u>Three-hundred soldiers storming Anzio</u> <u>Beach</u>??! What's going on here? I can't afford to film this nonsense!
So change the poster. Trust me, you'll be better off. This is a story that's gonna <u>grab</u> people. It's about this guy. He's crazy about this girl but he likes to wear dresses. Should he tell her? Should he not tell her? He's torn. George, this is DRAMA.
And what's with this new title?! My poster says "I CHANGED MY SEX"!
I don't think he's a schmuck.
Yeah! Five pages right before it ends! The rest of the show is about some schmuck who likes angora sweaters.
There's still a sex-change --
I thought this was gonna be a sex- change film!
Because he's <u>my friend</u>.
Why would Lugosi want to be in a sex-change flick?
Uh, yeah. Our picture.
No, he's not dead! He lives in Baldwin Hills. I met him recently, and he wants to be in our picture.
Isn't he dead?
What if I told you you could have a star for $1000??
Fine, maybe you're right. But it doesn't friggin' matter. I can't afford a star, so I don't even know what we're talking about.
No! It would be something better! Something <u>impressive</u>. The biggest moneymaker you've ever had!
Yeah. Crap with a star.
Yeah, but if you took that crap and put a star in it, you'd have something!
Eddie, you must have me confused with David Selznick. I don't make major motion pictures. I make crap.
No. Better than tits -- a <u>star</u>!
Mr. Weiss, I was thinkin' about what you said, about how all your movies have to make a profit. And I realized, what's the one thing, that if you put in a movie, it'll be successful??
Yeah. I know what it's like to live with a secret, and worry about what people are gonna think of you... My girlfriend still doesn't know why her sweaters are always stretched out.
And this is why you think you're the most qualified to make my movie?
Confidentially, I even paratrooped wearing a brassiere and panties. I'll tell ya, I wasn't scared of being killed, but I was <u>terrified</u> of getting wounded, and having the medics discover my secret.
You gotta be kiddin' me.
Nah, I'm all man. I even fought in WW2. 'Course, I <u>was</u> wearing ladies' undergarments under my uniform.
So you're not a fruit?
No, no, not at all! I <u>love</u> women. Wearing their clothes makes me feel closer to them.
Are you a fruit?
Well, Mr. Weiss, I've never told anyone what I'm about to tell you... but I really want this job. I like to dress in women's clothing.
Hmm. There's five-hundred guys in town who can tell me the same thing. You said on the phone you had some kind of "special qualifications."
Well, Mr. Weiss, I'm your guy. I work fast, and I'm a deal: I write AND direct. And I'm good. I just did a play in Hollywood, and Victor Crowley praised its realism.
It opens in nine weeks in Tulsa.
Fuck no! But there's a poster.
Is there a script?
No, of COURSE I'm gonna make the movie! I've already presold Alabama and Oklahoma. Those repressed Okies really go for that twisted pervert stuff. So we'll just make it without that she-male. We'll fictitionalize it.
So you're not gonna make the movie?
Yeah, well a couple of things have changed. It ain't gonna be the Christine Jorgensen story no more. Goddamn "Variety" printed the story before I had the rights, and now that bitch is asking for the sky.
Yes, I'm Ed Wood. I'm here about directing the Christine Jorgensen picture.
Can I help you?
So? It's only a five-hour drive. And it'll probably clear up, once we hit the desert. Heck, it'll probably clear up once we drive around the corner. I promise.
But it's pouring. And the car top is stuck!
<u>Right now</u>. Let's drive to Vegas!
Let's get married.
Ed, I'm so happy for you.
C'mon! Let's just go.
Ed, you're gonna miss your own premiere.
I can't get it to go up.
Who's Dr. Tom?
Look, it's Dr. Tom. Hey, Dr. Tom!
Hell, if I did, I wouldn't have any friends.
You should feel lucky. Ed's the only guy in town who doesn't pass judgment on people.
Yeah... I should give her a call.
The poor girl's out of a job.
Yes! BINGO! Solar energy! Oh that's gonna seem so scientific. This movie's gonna be the ultimate Ed Wood film. <u>No compromises</u>.
No, BIGGER! What's the biggest energy??
No. They're beyond that! They're smarter than the humans. What's <u>more</u> advanced?
Uh, atomic energy?
The left. It's more natural. Hey, I've got a scene where the aliens have the ultimate bomb. What would that be made of?
Do you want your buttons on the left or the right?
You know, when you rewrite a script, it just gets better and better!
I was a fuckin' HACK! I let people recut the movies, cast their relatives... I let Bela down...
Well you tried --
I might as well be. I made shitty movies that nobody wanted to see. I blew it. All he wanted was a comeback... that last glory...
Ed, you've got to snap out of this. Bela's dead -- <u>you're not</u>!
I'd seen him in a coffin so many times, I expected him to jump out...
What was that?
Thanks. It's actually the only thing I know how to make. Hey, can you grab that strainer?
Ed, this spaghetti sauce is delicious.
No! I love sex with girls.
Does this mean you don't like sex with girls?
I like to wear women's clothes: Panties, brassieres, sweaters, pumps... it's just something I do. And I can't believe I'm telling you, but I really like you, and I don't want it getting in the way down the road.
Kathy, I'm about to tell you something I've never told any girl on a first date. But I think it's important that you know. I like to wear women's clothes.
A few years ago, I actually saw him do "Dracula" live. I thought he was much scarier in person.
I had to sleep with the lights on for a month. But I never missed a Lugosi picture after that.
That <u>is</u> incredible! You know, I had to sleep with the lights on for a week after seeing that movie.
What do you mean?
You're not gonna believe the first picture I ever saw. Your friend's.
Yeah! Don't forget "Mercury Theatre"... And then every Saturday, I'd go to the little movie theater down the street. I even started ushering there.
Oh. I loved those shows! "Inner Sanctum"... "The Shadow" --
Nah, 'cause I had my comic books. And I read pulp magazines. And I listened to the radio dramas...
Did you find it boring?
Sounds like you lived in Grovers Corners.
No. I'm from back east. You know, All-American small town... everybody knew everybody, I was a Boy Scout, my dad worked for the post office...
So have you always lived in L.A.?
They're very nice. Let me get my coat.
I just picked them up on the way over...
Oh, flowers! I didn't know you were so traditional.
He's better. Thank you for asking. How's your friend?
I am. How's your father?
You look beat.
Oh, it's you again.
This is my thirteenth pair.
How long's he been here?
Booties for my father. He gets cold in this hospital.
What are you making?
Oh. My condolences.
The marriage already ended.
I got married last night.
Hello. You're sleeping in a tuxedo.
LOOK AT HIS SKULL!
Exactly. Hey, how 'bout this -- what if I don't have any lines? I'll do the part mute!
You don't wanna be noticed?
Look... would it be possible to make the "Ghoul's Wife" a little less prominent, so people won't really notice me in the movie?
The <u>Ghoul's Wife</u>?! God, I can't believe I'm doing this...
I know what <u>that's</u> like. Anyway, I brought a copy of the script. You would play the "Ghoul's Wife."
It's terrible. People won't even return my calls. It's like I don't exist.
I'm really sorry...
It's the same film. But the distributor wanted a punchier title. C'mon! It's gonna be a big event -- we're going all out! Bela, Tor, and Cris are coming. You'll have fun!
Didn't you just make one called "Bride Of The Atom"?
No, don't worry, I moved on. I was just calling to see if you want to attend the world premiere of my new film, "Bride Of The Monster."
Look buddy, I'm a big star. I've got real offers from real studios. I don't need to blow some dentist for a part. So forget it!
Please! It'll only take a minute. You can have some hors d'oeuvres, and meet my backers! There's a really nice dentist from Oxnard...
Uh, look, I'm with some friends, and we're about to eat --
No! I don't want you to show the movie, I want you to be <u>in it</u>! See, maybe I should explain: We started shooting, but then after three days we got shut down. So we're having a backers party, to raise some more money. Perhaps you'd like to come next door and meet some of the backers...?
You want me to show it on my TV program? Well I got nothing to do with that. You should call up the station manager at Channel Seven --
No. I think my film is perfect for you.
I don't understand. Do you want my autograph?
You don't know me, but my name is Ed Wood. I'm a film producer. I'm currently in production on a science-fiction piece, with Bela Lugosi and Swedish wrestler Tor Johnson. And I saw you here, and I thought: Kismet!
Excuse me, Miss Vampira?
That was Karloff. Paul, you gotta try harder. I don't want this film to be haif-assed. This time, we go for the quality.
Well I was thinkin' like, when Bela played "Fu Manchu."
Too tall... too short... And this guy doesn't work at all.
Great! Bring 'em in! Bunny, I gotta run.
Ed, I got the Lugosi lookalikes outside.
So how long have you known Eddie?
Hey, don't blame me! You didn't say anything about no motor when I was up on that ceiling!
You know, to make the legs move --
What octopus motor?
Hey. This is looking good! Paul, where's the octopus motor?
YES! JUST DO IT!
You're sure this is gonna work?
Uh, I couldn't reach the guy... he was in meetings all day. But this'll be great, I promise!
Ed, you said you were getting permission.
Nah, it'll work. Where's Bela?
We couldn't afford any more props. If it seems weird, maybe you can add a scene where they eat dinner.
Wow, this lab looks great. Except why is there a stove and refrigerator?
Well my cousin Fred met this dame from back East. She's from "old money," and he thinks she's loaded. And here's the kicker: She's <u>very</u> <u>interested</u> in the picture business!
Uh, yoo-hoo. Excuse me! Sorry to interrupt, but I got some big news.
Here's to Ed. For making us into something.
Just like I always promised. Now you're among the immortals. You're movie stars.
Well it looks good. Let's use it!
I don't know.
The set doesn't look right! It looks too... empty. Clutter it up. Put a skeleton in the corner. And what's that thing over there?
So don't take it too seriously. We're all doin' great work.
Lines around the block.
Hell, I've seen a lot worse reviews. I've seen ones where they didn't even like the costumes! Like, that last "Francis the Mule" picture -- it got <u>terrible</u> notices. But it was a huge hit.
And you're gonna make a bundle. This movie's gonna be famous! But only if you SHUT UP, and let me do it my way!
B-but it's our money --
Mr. Wood? <u>What do you think you're</u> <u>doing</u>?!
I thought this was a group effort.
Are you IN5ANE? <u>I'm</u> the director! <u>I</u> make the casting decisions around here!
This is our choir director. He's gonna play the young hero.
No, he would've loved it! Bela's returned from the grave -- like Dracula. CUE VAMPIRA!
Doesn't this strike you as a bit morbid?
Isn't it wonderful? Bela lives!
What are you talking about?! It's the premise of the movie. It's even the title, for Christ's sake!
...Do you accept the Lord Jesus Christ as your savior?
No you're not! This marriage was never consummated. I'm getting an annulment!
Please, be compassionate. I'm your husband!
Honey, I have a little secret to share with you.
What the heck is THIS?!!
Don't worry, I'll teach you.
Eddie, I'm just a small-town girl. I've never done this before.
You shouldn't be embarrassed by the truth. Mind if I order some hotcakes...?
My goodness, you're embarrassing me.
You know, you're a very attractive girl.
Two people do. Orson Welles and me.
Ah, c'mon! Nobody does all that.
No, I work in pictures. I'm a director-actor-writer-producer.
What are you, an angora wholesaler?
It's made from specially-bred rabbits that live in the Himalayas.
I suppose. It's very expensive.
Don't you think angora has a tactile sensuality lacking in all other clothing?
Look, you seem like a nice guy, Ed, but you're just not my type. But keep in touch. Let me know when your movie opens.
No, no! I like girls. So how 'bout Friday?
Isn't that the same thing?
ME?! No, uh, I'm just a transvestite.
You mean like a date? I thought you were a fag.
Well, I was wondering if maybe sometime you'd like to go out, and maybe grab some dinner.
Oh. Yeah. You.
Ed Wood! You came to my party. I directed "Bride Of The Atom"!
Vampira! Hi, this is Ed Wood.
Hank was always good with the ladies. Always good-looking. Hell, he's been dead for two days, he still looks better than me.
Oh, Al ... This is just...
I'm going to be living with my brother. He's not in such good shape as I am, but... I'm looking forward to the pillow fights.
I'm moving out.
Are things gonna be okay with you and Mom? Is there anything I can --
It's your father. Hank. Your mother went to see him and he had a heart attack.
You thought it was me?
Where is she? Is she all right?
Our neighbors gave me a ride.
How's your mother?
Well, now I will. He was a crazy mean, son-of-a-bitch.
Have I ever said a bad word to you about your father?
I'm not -- I didn't -- Al, you know how I feel about you...
Jeanette, you're hurting me.
No. Only celebrities now. Now, if you put a mailman on the cover of a magazine he'd better have killed someone or no one will buy it. This one to Dr. Rumpley.
Well, I don't think you can get more common than me, Al.
They celebrated the common person.
Yeah, so... ?
Norman Rockwell. He painted magazine covers. Folksy. A mailman, a boy scout, a kid visiting a doctor...
Whatever happened to Norman Rockwell?
Look at your face. I had a car that color.
What do you love her or something?
She's in the kitchen. I'd yell for her, but I'd die. You had a busy night last night.
Is Mom here? I gotta talk to her.
No, I intentionally picked out a lot of crap 'cause I don't like you.
Yeah. I brought you some movies.
At the point -- I don't -- Look you'd be on TV maybe one or two times each. I'11 try to avoid I'11 go out of my way to avoid, getting together with you. Believe me.
At what point?
No. Kissing and hugging, okay, but if it's actual sex they have to cut away.
No! Do they show you having sex?
I'11 have to pass, Al. And it's not an age thing --
I guess -- I don't -- it's all in the contract. There's this million-page contract --
Do they show it?
What if I'm vomiting?
What if--you're vomiting?
No. The bathroom is off limits -and when I go to sleep they go to other programming. Unless I get up. Then they go back on the air. Unless I get up to go to the bathroom, I guess, then -
You know it.
Ooh, the sister! She is hot.
Yeah only I wish they had the sister on more.
If Ray would steal this girl from Ed. That would be great.
You know what would be great?
She doesn't give a shit about him.
You think she really likes him?
So if it's a show and they have a guy die that's writing, but if it's real and they have a guy die that's murder.
This is real, Bananahead!
You know, for a tearjerker. The audience falls in love with this loveable old geezer in a wheelchair and then he dies, it's ... They know what they're doing.
What do you mean "they're gonna have him die?"
I'11 tell you something else. The old guy in the wheelchair? The stepfather? They're gonna have him die.
Okay, I'm nuts.
Her. That look. She likes the Ed guy better than she likes the brother.
Did you see that?
Yeah. Because, you didn't talk me into anything. Everything you wanted me to do, I wanted to do.
I don't think so.
Yeah? Well I'm not starting now.
No. You screwed up my life just so you could get higher ratings. You never gave a shit about me.
You know, everything you asked me to do I did. I call you for advice about Shari you say - "Leave her be, see other people for a while." You just wanted me to get involved with Jill because it made for a better show.
Yeah, but when they went off people weren't making fun of them. They weren't bozos! I'm Pumpkin Ass again!
Ed, everything goes off. "Cheers" went off. "Mash" went off --
Pursued, not harassed. Give it some space. Can I tell you something -- as a friend? My sister was going with a guy they hit a little rough spot they started seeing other people they got back together and last month they had their third child For what it's worth.
You said a woman likes to be pursued.
Leave her be.
Yeah, that's why I called. I mean, maybe Fed-Ex would tell me where she moved --
Ed, do you want my advice?
What if Shari's the dream?
You asked me if I had a dream. I said "Sure, I have a dream. I just don't know what it is yet."
Stand back -- I'm about to do my Happy Dance.
That means a balloon payment and a big raise for the second month.
We're going to get you a bodyguard, don't worry. Ed, I have some news for you. We're picking up Ed TV for another month!
They tore her dress! ...
A woman wants to be pursued.
Can I give you one bit of advice? About Shari?
And all the kids stared calling me "Pumpkin Ass." "Hey Pumpkin Ass," -- for like a year. So, now, I feel like everyone's watching me and, you know, I'm "Pumpkin Ass" again.
I feel like when I was a kid and my mother sent me to school in orange corduroy pants.
How you doing, Ed?
Good idea. Could you all leave us alone for a few minutes?
Could we just talk alone for a second? I --
Don't say that. That's like... telling a guy before you have sex you'd better be good. You don't do that.
I bet my career on you. You'd better be good.
Now look. Don't freeze up on me. I picked you because you had kind of a relaxed, go-with-the-flow quality. You're not going to lose that, are you?
Um, yeah -- thanks.
That has my work number, my home number, my pager number. I sleep three hours a night. Call me whenever you want to talk. Off the air, on the air, whenever. Okay?
I want you to take this.
Okay, so you understand? We're installing a permanent camera in your bedroom, one in the kitchen, one in the living room, plus, of course, there'll always be a couple of steady-cams following you.
Ed, can I see you a second.
Oh, see, studying would've been a huge help. Where were you, then?
What did you study?
I've got this great idea. We put together a video. "The Network Executives Goofiest Moments." And listen, i've really loved working here.
Where are you going?
Cynthia, I think you're laboring under a misconception. You seem to believe that because you happened to predict this, we should be impressed. We're not. Anybody in any business can predict failure. 1 need people who prevent failure. I want to see this thing turned back in the right direction. Remember this was your baby.
Isn't this getting kind of pathetic. I mean we drank the juice, now we're just licking peel. Let it go!
With all due respect, Cynthia you're nuts. I'm giving him another month!
I'm telling you, it's peaked. Ed TV is an over-inflated balloon. Get it off before it explodes all over us.
What are you talking about? He's fine. He's out of the hospital already. The ratings are higher than ever.
Take him off the air.
I'm not sure about the entire concept.
I polled my staff. The men say they'd hang around with him and the women say he's fuckable. And one of the men said he's fuckable.
He's who we want to go with.
No. The deceased is ... Henry Pekurny.
I thought -- I thought he was dead.
I ... don't know. I ...
Hotel? What were they doing in a hotel?
According to your mother. When the paramedics got to the hotel, she told them that --
Really? They were..
Very quick. Between you and me, it's not a bad way to go. Making love to your wife... it's very sweet.
What about him -- did he suffer any or was it quick? I'd hate to think he...
Mm... Oh, man...
Just wait here. She's coming right back out.
Thank you. Can I see her?
I'm Dr. Geller. Your mother is just lying down for a few minutes. we gave her something to calm her down.
So he killed himself.
And then, uh... you know it blew over and he went back to being a fireman again.
Yeah, a thing. He became a big hero. He was on TV and there was a parade and a movie about him
Oh right, right! She fell down, like a...
No! Like, ten years ago. In Texas. Baby... Jessica!
You know about that fireman who rescued that little girl?
No! Don't -- Oh, wow.
Yeah. Honey, if you're watching this is for you.
Oh -- so I'm just, what -- a poor substitute?
Aah, I wanted Shari to come.
Yeah. You did good. What's wrong?
Hey, if it's free, it's me. You ready?
Yeah, what - they put some schmuck on TV all day long or something?
Oh, that thing. Yeah. Did you hear about this?
Your brother's here.
So do I. So what? I'm doing all right.
I was at this comedy club last week and this comedian says "If you're over thirty and your job requires you to wear a name tag, you screwed up your life." And I'm laughing and then I realize I wear a nametag.
I'm gonna stick this right in your eye.
We're the guys who clean up after the parade.
You know who we are?
We're falling behind.
You said that.
Look at this -- people are getting married, they're getting married...
I'm a whore! Your bathrooms are filthy!
And how is this helping? come on say, good-night to all your new friends and let's go home.
I'm a tramp Meet your new father. The whole nation is laughing at us!
Why shouldn't I be in a place like this? I'm a whore!
You're famous. Somebody called me. What are you doing in a place like this?
Ed! How did you know I was here?
Well, he's the only one in America who doesn't!
Don't tell Al. He doesn't know.
Apparently, neither can Hank. What the hell did you do to him?
Do you think it's been easy for me? It's been years. Al can't have sex.
But Al is your husband now!
One thing led to another. He was my husband once.
Oh my god! On TV!
Yes. He assumed Hank was your husband. He didn't know.
To you? In front of him? With the...
The doctor said you were having sex.
So you had sex with him?
Hank! He said he wanted to talk to me to apologize for everything he begged -- he cried. So I went to this horrible hotel he was staying in... I felt so sorry for him --
It was horrible. He called me up.
I'm coming right over. I'll be right there.
Oh God. What hospital?
He's dead! Eddie, he's dead! It was his heart.
What's the matter?!
I'm at the hospital.
What do you think. I mean about... him. Should I just... have nothing to do with him? I mean...
Hank! All of a sudden. Because now you're famous and he can get something from you. I don't wan you to become a victim like Marcia. Not that you're a victim, honey. You're not. Life's just been a little hard on you, sweetie.
And what did he come back now for?
If I don't call you "Dad" it' just because... 1 was already a big boy when you came into our lives -- or when I thought you came into our lives --
He had a woman in my own bed! And how dare you call him "Dad" in front of Al. This is your father. This is who was there for you when you needed someone.
Oh my God. You and Al were - and that's why you threw him out.
The difference is for twenty years I thought one thing and now it's another thing.
What's the difference?
So does Grandma. So does Shaquille O'Neal. You told me you had a hysterectomy and he ran off with your nurse.
She had white shoes.
Could've been a nurse?
She could've been a nurse.
But what was that whole story about him and a nurse?
He... apologized, he begged me. He can be very... charming when it suits his purpose.
Chicken pox? I was six. He didn't leave 'til I was twelve.
All right -- do you want to know the truth? I took you and Marcia and Ray to my sister's on the train for the weekend and you all got chicken pox. So I took you home a day early and there was your father with a woman in our bed. Okay?
I don't care what he says. Look, I don't need to relive this. On television!
He says --
He had girlfriends!
Yes to me or yes to the coil?
So everything he told me yesterday was a lie. Everything.
I told you the facts! He abandoned us -- those are the facts.
I'm not! I'm just trying to get some facts.
I can't believe you're taking his side.
Oh my God!!
I mean, that worked out.
Oh my God!
You and Al lived together a few months before you got married -- after Dad left.
Well, who knows? Maybe she finally picked a winner this time.
I don't know. She's living with that "entertainer"...
How's Marcia? She all right?
No! I -- All right, look, if you hear from Ray.... tell him to call me, okay?
I know you. This Shari is a passing fancy.
No! And that girl has a name.
No. Maybe he's watching. Tell him you're sorry. Tell him you'11 stay away from that girl.
I don't want to -- do you know where he is?
He made a mistake.
Hey, he cheated on her.
Eddie, how could you do it? Your brother's girlfriend.
Ma, do you know where Ray is? I've been calling him and I'm getting his machine and --
Look, Ma, come on out. Really. I need to talk to you.
No. It's a mess.
Do you want us to come in the kitchen?
Send him? Ma, I can't. it's -- just come out here. Please, I --
Send him away.
Yeah. The camera guy is here.
Are the TV people with you?
She wouldn't tell me.
I'm sorry. Where'd they send her?
She left. She moved. She got Fed-Ex to give her a transfer and she left. She couldn't stand it anymore. We had people, news people, regular people, just sleeping in our hallway, going through our mail, our garbage. I mean it was she couldn't take it anymore. Now I've got to move. I can't afford this place by myself.
What are you talking about?
Well, when will she be back?
What is she, at work?
Hi. Is Shari here?
Shari, Ray feels --
No, I understand. That's - where is she, is she all right?
She really doesn't want you and the camera in here right now.
Right, yeah --
Everybody's making audition tapes for that Real TV thing.
What's going on over there?
All right. Let them decide.
Not too good. That's why it states in your contract that if you do not continue to live a normal life, you're in violation and are liable for the station's financial losses. Ed, I urge you to reconsider. I urge you on behalf of all those people out there whose lives have become so entwined with yours. Play fair with them, Ed.
Look, if you don't let me out of this... I'11 just... I'11 just sit in my apartment all day. I won't go anywhere, I won't do anything. What kind of show will that be?
Well, no. You agreed to stay on the air as long as we asked you to. The station entered into this on that understanding. If you had refused we'd have begun this with somebody else. You can't just change the rules in the middle of the game, son. It's not fair to us. More importantly, it's not fair to the viewers. They're interested in you. They've devoted hours and days and weeks of their lives to you.
All right, I'11 pay for the parking. Big network!
Well, Ed, that's ... not really possible.
I can imagine. You said you wanted nothing to do with this. You swore to me. "Don't come near me. Don't bring this into my life..."
Ed, he needs a break. You don't know what kind of bad luck he's had --
Oh! Oh -- okay, now I get it. It's "Star Search." You wanted me here because the camera comes with me.
Hm? I'm, uh... Why isn't this drunken woman you?
What are you doing?
Our foibles, our foibles!
They're gonna mock our foibles.
No! I barely even mentioned -it's just that, my friends, the people at work, whoever I'm regularly in contact with they want releases from.
I can't do that to him. He's pushing a little too hard - but... I just can't do that to him.
Never would be plenty.
How much less?
He's just ... trying a little too hard --
It means they hate his freaking guts. It means if he were on fire they wouldn't put him out.
What does this mean?
No, I mean...
Are you asking me?
Welcome to work, Ed.
Who's in it?
Ed, come on. What's that gonna do? You're gonna bring Blockbuster to their knees. Let me recommend a movie to you. It's called "Get your shit together before it's too late."
Well, then I'm quitting.
Hey. I went as far as I felt comfortable. I mean, you know, let's face it -- you come and go here as you please. You work when you feel like it -- you know, Bruce Springsteen's birthday is not a legal holiday.
You batted or you bunted?
Oh, Christ. Did you go to bat for me?
Ed, look, uh... you're not getting the job. They're gonna transfer someone from another store to manage this store when I leave to manage the new store. I'm sorry.
What's the deal? Did anybody make a decision -
Um, yeah, I was gonna ...
So act now. Here's Ed's home phone number.
But facts! They have to be verified. Anything from their past, their present, business, personal -- arrests, affairs ... And whoever comes up with the sleaziest, most degrading material -- I'11 give you ten thousand dollars. And you get to be on Ed TV. Hah?
My lovely assistant, Shari. I'm glad you asked. The contest is who can dig up -- legally, of course -- I'm not suggesting that anyone break any laws -- the most embarrassing and humiliating facts about any of the executives here at the North American Broadcasting System which owns Real TV.
What do we have to do?
Let's have a contest. Now this would mostly be open to professional investigators and detectives. But anyone can join in.
My truck overheated, so I opened the hood and my hair got caught in the fan belt. So I had to get a haircut.
What did you do to your hair?
You weren't able to make me feel safe or secure -- no easy job for any man, I admit -- and my problem is, if I think I'm losing, I pull myself out of the game. I bail. See? I told you, I'm the love coroner.
It's what I do. I yell "Geronimo" and jump out of a relationship.
This is going right up your ass.
Well, yeah, everybody's someone. But I mean someone they want to be. I mean let's face it, I'm working in the video store, no one's coming in saying "oh, I wish I was that guy. 1 wish was rewinding that huge pile of tapes." At least for a month I'm not just a guy with a name tag. I'm famous.
You see how people look at me. Like when they ask for my autograph or say "Hi" to me... It's like I'm a basketball player or a... you know, like I'm someone.
Ray borrowed this whole tub of money against this balloon payment that I don't get if I qu -- it's too complicated. I -- Besides...
No. If I quit I don't get the balloon payment.
No... Could you?
What do you want me to do? You want me to quit the show?!
No. It's your fault.
It's not their fault.
Oh that was... no, I ... she just kind of trapped me into giving her a ride. It's you. I want you.
Yeah... I saw that girl come on to you at the TV show.
She lied to me. I mean all my life, she's telling me one story and then... it turns out to be a completely different story. Come to me at some point -- tell me the truth. No. Not in my house. The truth is a stranger. And this is why Ray and Marcia are the way they are. Marcia gets involved with all these losers and sees no problem with herself - "How do they find me" she says. Ray cheats on you and then blames me for it. I'm the only one in the family who takes any responsibility for himself... Oh, man... Are you all right?
Are you all right?
I need to talk.
Just... just relax. Okay? We won't do anything. We'11 just sit here for a while.
I feel like a criminal or, like we're cheating on someone.
Come on, let's go.
Oh Je -- couldn't he sleep with Rita? We'11 all have a good time.
So my little brother's staying here. I'm sleeping with Rita.
I tried to tell you over the phone -- my parents went to Atlantic City.
There's a list.
Exactly. Boy, you're smart. Why are you so mean to her? What did she do to you? "Is she good enough for Ed?" Who the hell am I? Who the hell do you think I should be dating?
Who cares? I don't ca -- No. I do care. Shame on everybody. Shame on you! Well, just the seventy-one percent. The other...
A poll. "Is Shari Good Enough for Ed?" Seventy-one per cent said "no." They hate me!
Page three of the Post.
Look at this.
Everybody hates me!
I have no privacy. Even now! I'm crying and I can't stop and they won't go away. And now it's going to be another month!
Ed... I think we should stop seeing each other.
... yeah, then, but...
...if this ... ... weren't here... ?
I really like you too...
Shari, I really like you...
I know, I ...
So? What do they think -- we're not kids --
I know, but even if they go away, everybody in America knows what we're doing because... they went away.
I told you. If we... you know do it, they go away until ... we're done.
He could give me some oxygen.
I wish my stepfather was here.
Saturday, I think we should
Oh -- Sunday is good for me to meet your folks. We get a big family audience on Sundays so it works out.
It's quite an honor. Will you come with me?
You know, the big machine that cleans the ice.
Sunday night at the Devils game, I'm driving the Zamboni.
You should see the one we wear when it rains.
It's really a tremendous turnoff.
You know, I never saw you in your uniform before.
I missed you.
What are you doing?
Weird? If this happened last month it would've been weird. Now with... the TV and... now it's just too weird.
Oh God, this is so weird.
Me too. I mean I'm going out with Ray and I'm... thinking about you.
Yeah. I mean for months I've been seeing you with Ray you being his girlfriend and I kept wishing you were my girlfriend... But, you know, what could I do?
All right. Okay. I'11 ... see you.
Can't we just --
Well, when you put it that way.
I kissed my boyfriend's brother on television!
Oh my God.
Look, not having been there... I just think you're hurt and you're saying this to, you know, get back at him.
I mean bad.
Oh... how come?
I've got news for you-- I never intended to marry him.
I'm not. I'm not. I'm just Look -- you know, in a way, it's good. He got this out of his system now and he knows it's not worth it and, you know, someday if you guys got married or something --
Don't defend that horse's ass to me.
Shari, I'm just really sorry. Look, I know this is... unbelievably awkward, but if I could come in for like a second and -- you know -- just say... two words, then...
What do you want?!
No, no, I -- as soon as you came in tonight I said to John, "Boy Shari looks beautiful." I said it on TV so you can ask anybody who saw it.
You do though, you look great.
Dynamite is dangerous.
So maybe this is my dynamite.
I saw this show once. It was about logging. I was home sick, there was nothing else on. Do you know how they break up really bad log jams? You know, when they're really tangled... ?
Why do it?
Hey, believe me -1 know I've got a great chance of making a fool of myself, here.
Are you sure about this?
Really? You see, to me, you shouldn't have any trouble with men. There should be, like, a line behind you.
Oh, the whole family loved him. Of course, they loved the last guy I went out with, and he strung me along for three years and dumped me.
I hear the dog really liked him.
A hundred per cent cotton. Okay, here we go, Andy.
And each contestant gets one of these. An "I tried to screw a network executive" tee-shirt.
I commit. I take a chance. You wanted to be the guy on TV, but you didn't want to say you wanted to. So you have me talk you into it so you get what you want, but if it goes bad it's not your fault.
Me?! That's you!
I got paid by the word! No! Your problem is you don't ever want anything to be your fault.
Yeah. My problem is I've got a brother who writes a sentence like "We grew up in a small, little bedroom." As opposed to a big, little bedroom?
You know what your problem is?
Let's remember how I got into this. "Please, Eddie, do this for me. I can't get a break."
Come on, Ma.
I put his -- who -- Look, Marsh, he's not that good a singer, he'll be back.
That's right. You put Cliff on television. So then he decided he was too good for her and he left.
Cliff left her, thanks to you.
Ray, come an--
What are we gonna fight? Ray, please, listen to me --
Look, we gotta talk.
Oh, man, I've been trying to call you.
If I go over to Shari, the camera's going there, too.
You brought the girl!
You brought the cameras here!
No, not her. Shari. Go over there and talk to her
I don't even know her. All I know is she likes Snapple.
Stop? I'm a guy. I don't stop. The woman's supposed to stop. We're the gas, they're the brakes.
Next thing you know! Why didn't you stop?
It's the receptionist at one of the places I service video equipment -- she's very pretty and, you know, she never even talks to me and then today I come in and she's all "I saw you on TV the other night... You were so great ... " Next thing I know we're ...
What is this? What's going on, who is that?
We'd better go...
Hello... Shari, hi... Oh no! ... Oh God!
Oh. All right. I'11 watch at home, then.
Uh, no, uh I'm a little tired. I fell asleep.
You watching the ballgame?
It's me, Ed.
Who is it?
While I'm gone, tell them about our cousin Lenny who's gay. We knew from when he was five.
What are you, hiding from the Police? Show your face, you look great. Doesn't she look great.
"Quick pull off the highway" is not a relationship. Oh man, I gotta pee.
She didn't know he was a criminal. They had a relationship. They --
Richie! She spent six months dating a criminal
What's the dif --
Remember the last guy she got involved with? What was his name?
She's an alcoholic, for Christ's sake.
I mean my question is what was she doing in a bar in the first place?
Yeah. You know, piano bars. plays the piano and sings. That's how they met.
Marcia's living with a singer?
No, this is great. You'll love this. He's a singer.
Ray, maybe this isn't ...
That's our sister. She's got a new boyfriend.
No. What happened?
Hey, Ed. Did you hear about Marcia?
See, they should've picked him. Look how comfortable he is out there.
Okay, I just wanted to get your attention. My name is Ray and my friend Bucky and I design video systems. You've got an office or a big home, we'11 come out there design you an entire system.
Hey. Check this out. Look at this.
Oh, don't bullshit a bullshitter. If you're happy like this you're an idiot, and you're not an idiot. Hi.
Hey. You know-- we're not the same. I got a good life, this job suits me. I come and go when I please --
That's right. You don't know. Doors don't fly open for guys like us.
I don't know.
How many opportunities are you going to get in your life?
You're gonna be a video store clerk for the rest of your life? This is your big ambition, rearranging the "Ernest" movies?
Oh Yeah? What's your master plan here?
I'm doing all right.
All right. Let me ask you something... are you happy like this?
Whenever you ask me something why do you always say "Let me ask you something?" Why don't you just ask me?
Why do you do that?
In a second! In a hot second. Let me ask you something --
You would do this? You would actually --
Oh man! They couldn't pick me! They had to pick you!
Look -- there's a million ways to humiliate yourself - I gotta think of a new way? I mean, it's all day! Every minute. Id be like a monkey at the zoo. I just...
I ... I'm not gonna do it.
Hi, Shari. Let's go in the stockroom.
I got your message. Way to go!
I'm making a tape.
I'm not stitching Nikes in Panama! ... Bedwetter!
That's like... those people stitching Nikes in Panama saying they're in the NBA.
Yeah. I service video equipment.
You're in show business?
Yeah, but let's stay on one subject. Whoever that person is is going to be famous. They'll be able to get whatever they want. They'll ... trust me, this is my business.
What are you drunk?
That! Being that guy. Being the guy they watch.
You know, that would be like a great thing.
I know. I mean I'm sitting there and her father's asking me about my "career prospects" and I'm playing "Risk," with her kid brother, Leon and at dinner the dog's sniffing at my balls -- at least I hope it was the dog. 'Cause her mother disappeared for a while.
What do you mean all of a sudden? You've been going with her six months.
I was... having dinner with Shari and her parents.
Where were you?
I love you! 1 want to marry you!
No -- keep it.
No problema. You want a picture?
Mr. Pekurny. I'm sorry to bother you. My son would just love to have your autograph.
Oh, is Shari here? Why didn't you just say so? Why are you giving me a song-and-dance about being tired?
Ray, where do you keep the glasses?
No. Ray sat on it. I'11 see you.
Do you still have it?
-- That we were doing "together." I finished it. It came out great! Because no one was standing over my shoulder bothering me - "That's too much glue. You're using too much glue."
The pirate ship.
Yeah? That's good. Sorry is good. You know I finished that model.
Ed... I'm sorry.
All right... This is my father, I don't know what the hell he can do, but if anyone out there can help him -- get him a job - I'11 ... help you. I'11 ... mention your business or ... I don't know, we'11 figure it out. I gotta go.
I need help. How many times if just one little thing that I needed would've happened, it would've changed everything. If I had a few dollars when an opportunity came along or... the tumblers just never clicked for me.
So you saw me on TV and you said "Hey, let me jump on this."
The last two years, I've been a limousine driver, but I don't see well anymore, so...
Oh, man! So...
No. Two times.
The whole time? Eighteen years?
I was in jail.
It could be, if you fixed it up. How did you... ? I mean how does anyone ... wind up like this?
Quite a shithole, isn't it?
Who is it?
No. Am I supposed to?
You don't recognize me.
Ohh... do you own a cat?
What is? Oh, dinner!
No. It's going to be about a half-hour.
Can I help with anything?
Why don't you come over. And I'11 make dinner. And you bring a movie. And ... We'11 make a night of it ... okay?
Are you busy tomorrow night?
We have to stop meeting like this.
Oh, great! Thanks. I'm just going uptown.
Um... They gave me a limo, uh...
Well, it was really nice meeting you and, uh... I'd better get a cab.
Oh, yeah, I love those. Yeah... those are funny...
Thanks... That's ...
I'm Jill. I really like your show. I think you're great.
That girl's an idiot.
If they keep Ed on for one full month, he gets a balloon payment.
What does that have to do with... ?
For instance... me and my friend Bucky are buying out my boss. His equipment, trucks, client list, the whole shmear.
That's the point -- this could change things.
Look, my life is not so great, that I want it shown on television. And neither is yours.
Everyone has foibles. Then the whole country sees them on TV and mocks them. Then we have... mocked foibles.
We don't have foibles.
What happened? You described this "crazy-kooky" family who'd be a million laughs on TV?
Look, can we all just sign the releases so we can get on with this?
By the X. That's were two lines cross -- forming an X.
Oh, an TV a minute and already an attitude.
What would I actually have to do to get you to sign this?
Some more make-up wouldn't do you any harm. On TV you look a little washed out.
By the X.
That Ray was a pig. Ed is doll. You latch on to him honey.
Sign here, please.
He ended up moving back to Milwaukee to live with his parents. I haven't heard from him in a long time. Poor guy. I warned him.
Sherry Sherry Sheerrry. ...
I'm not talking about ethics. I'm talking about morals.
I don't need a lecture on ethics, Jim, okay? I know what --
That was just talk! Fantasy talk! What are you, nuts? We talk about girls all the time, but it doesn't mean anything. I would never. . . I mean, I take very seriously our strict moral code. The line you've crossed is... it's illegal and it's immoral.
You're not just jealous, are you? I mean, we both used to talk about her
Dave, I'm just saying this as your friend. What you're doing is really, really wrong, and you've got to stop.
That's the whole point. It's all in my head; it's right here. I just got to get it out there. Tracy wants me to write it so she can read it. It's beautiful.
But you haven't written your novel.
Yeah, it's serious. I mean she inspires me in ways Sherry never has. She even wants to read my novel.
Look, Jim... Okay. I know it all seems crazy, and maybe it did start out, you know, for the... for the sex and the danger. But now it's different. Jim, what I'm trying to tell you is that Tracy and I are totally, totally in love.
You did it at your house? Your own house?
Foxy. . . Foxy. . . You know you're a cute little heartbreaker... Foxy... You know you're a sweet little love maker...
You could tell Dave was one of those guys who taught because they never wanted to leave high school in the first place, and that could get a little irritating sometimes, but basically he was a real good guy.
She's incredible. Everything just gets soaked.
Don't tell me that. I don't want to know that.
A few months before the election, she'd had an affair with my best friend Dave Novotny.
Here, get down.
It was the first time somebody ever saw the real me, the me that nobody else knows.
And I know sometimes people like you have to pay a price for their greatness, and that price is loneliness.
Tracy, I've been watching you for going on two years now, and I think you are one of the most talented, hard-working, sensitive, attractive, brilliant students -- no, human beings -- I have ever met. I mean, you're the real thing. Special.
What kind of person?
What do you mean? What kind of person am I?
I know. I know its not by choice. I just mean, well, being the kind of person you are, it must be really difficult to find someone you can talk to.
No, I'm not. I'm just really busy.
Well, I notice you don't seem to have any close friends at Millard. You seem to be kind of a loner.
You know, Tracy... I don't know how to say this, but...
One night he took us editors out to celebrate after a deadline. Eventually Dave and I were left alone and we got to talking - not like teacher and student, but like two adults.
Well, Sherry's great. But she can be a little much sometimes.
Yeah. No. I mean, you know.
You guys have fun?
Fine. You know. We just went to Crossroads.
How'd it go?
Yeah, just --
Come on, doit. Doit. Fill me up. Come on, fill me up
Yeah, uh, just a minute
You gonna do it? You gonna do it?
He likes it.
Jim, don't. You're scaring him.
Around that time Diane and I were hanging out a lot at Sherry Novotny's house, giving her our love and support and helping her make it through a difficult time.
Everything's fine. Just, you know, school.
Thank God for Diane. She was my best friend, my source of love and strength. Oh sure, we'd had our share of bumpy times, but we'd always seen them through. After nine years of marriage, we were closer than ever. And the secret? Good communication.
All right. Well, sure nice to meet you.
Having a problem with your eye there?
You're going to Catholic school next year. You're going to Sacred Heart. Maybe they'll straighten you out!
Tammy, now we've come to a decision. He just think it would be best --
Don't you smartass me! Don't you dare smartass me! You just shut your mouth I Now your mother and I have had a long talk with Halt Hendricks --- we just got off the phone with him at home. You know, he doesn't want you back at Millard. He's fed up with you. Fed up! And I don't blame him!
But, Mr. M. -
Larry? We've got twenty-five minutes until the assembly, and we still have to do counts for VP, Treasurer and Secretary. Mr. Hendricks and I have both verified the numbers, and unless you can come up with the ballots you claim are missing -
I didn't make a mistake. Every vote was there when you sac down
It happens, Larry. People make mistakes.
But, they were there I counted 803 votes.
He's right. Two people must have pocketed their ballots. Usually it's more.
See, it doesn't add up. There are only 801 ballots but 803 people voted. Two votes are missing. Check the register.
Mostly Tammy fans
I think we've got a problem.
Huh. Okay. Well, I guess I'd better do my count.
Larry, we're not electing the fucking Pope here. Just tell me who won.
I thought those were the rules, Mr. McAllister. If they've changed in any way --
You're kidding, right?
I'm not supposed to tell. Not until you've counted too. We're each supposed to make an independent count.
What d'you got?
All right. I'll be back
Okay. Yeah. We know
I just want to get this over with, so we can have the assembly and go home. We don't have much time until eighth period. I have other things going on, too, you know.
You have the key, Mr. McAllister.
Fine. So do your count. Start with president, and I'll be right back.
Well, I thought that... well, the way it always works is that SGA president does a count, then the SGA advisor, you know, for the two independent counts.
What? Right. So let's start counting.
I hope so
You'll be fine.
I'm scared, Mr. M. I kind of don't feel ready for college.
Take as much room as you want
What a surprise.
Would you sign it for me?
Oh, is this...? God. First one of these I haven't been in for a long time.
I just have to get something. I'll be right back.
Swallows, unsure what heaven or hell awaits him.
I want you to do something for me.
I've got an idea.
Well, I... I... that's very nice of you.
Nooo. I just thought... l mean, I am looking for a new car. But I just thought, well, I'm going away soon, and you'll be stuck here and, I don't know, I just think maybe if things had been different we might have been, well, friends. Real friends. And then things would be different. Don't you think?
Coming to see me. Are you trying to. . humiliate me?
Why are you doing this?
That sounds good.
And this model comes with ABS and dual air bags standard.
Plenty of pep, too.
Handles pretty good, don't you think?
Anywhere you want. Just so long as we're not gone more than a half-hour.
So, are you looking for something sporty or more practical?
Good for you. Good for you
Well, I got in everywhere I applied, but Cornell is my first choice.
Huh. Right. College. Wow. Where are you going? Where 'd you get into?
My mother's buying me a new car for college.
Oh. New cars. I see. Well, you came to the right place
I'm looking at new cars.
So what brings you here?
Hello, Mr. M.
That said, the whole point of an election is to choose winners, and that you have done. We'll begin with president.
Act surprised. Walk slowly to the podium. Be modest. Thank them for this incredible honor.
That's enough, Tracy. Quit while you're ahead, okay? I'll handle this. Could you ask Walt to come in?
I told you! I told you! You're going to pay for my banner!
You're off the hook. Tammy here has confessed.
What do you mean?
Looks like today's your lucky day
And I think certain older persons like you and your "colleague" shouldn't be leaching after their students, especially when some of them can't even get their own wives pregnant. And they certainly shouldn't be running around making slanderous accusations. Especially when certain young, naive people's mothers are para-legal secretaries at the city's biggest law firm and have won many successful lawsuits. And if you want to keep questioning me like this, I won't continue without my attorney present.
I agree. But I also think certain young and naive people need to thank their lucky stars and be very, very grateful the whole school didn't find out about certain indiscretions which could have ruined their reputations, and chances to win certain elections.
I don't know what you're referring to, but I do know that if certain older and wiser people hadn't acted like such little babies and gotten all mushy, everything would be okay.
This isn't the time or the place to get into it, but there is, for just one example, a certain former colleague of mine, who made a very big mistake, a life mistake. I think the lesson there is that, old and young, we ail make mistakes, and we have to learn that our actions, all of them, can carry serious consequences. You're very young, Tracy underage, in fact -- but maybe one day you'll understand.
Why are you lecturing me?
You're a very intelligent girl, Tracy. You have many admirable qualities. But someday maybe you'll learn that being smart and always being on top and doing whatever you need to do to get ahead, and yes, stepping on people to get there, well, there's a lot more to life than that. And in the end, you're only cheating yourself.
well, I don't know. It could have been anybody. There are a lot of, you know, subversive elements around Millard. You know, like Rick Thieson and Kevin Speck and those burn-outs. Or Doug Schenken - what about him? Or what about Tammy Metzier? Her whole thing is being anti- this and anti-that.
Okay, Tracy, so who do you think did it? Whom should we "interrogate?"
I don't. I just know they were there when I left. I'm giving you helpful information is all. You know, instead of wasting time interrogating me, we should be out there trying to find out who did this.
6:30. How do you know what time the posters were torn down?
I was. So? Mr. Pecharda let me in. As you know, with all my responsibilities I often come in on the weekend and have permission to do so. But I left very early, around 6:30.
Were you or were you not working in the Watchdog office over the weekend?
Mr. M., I am running on my qualifications. I would never need to resort to, you know, to vandalism like a, you know... Plus, my own best banner was torn down. Did I do that too?
Wait - are you accusing me? You're not serious. I can't... Mr. McAllister, we have worked together on SGA for three solid years and... I mean, I can't believe it. I'm... I'm shocked!
A travesty. Huh. That's interesting, because I think you did it.
If it's about the posters, I think it's so awful. It's a travesty.
I guess you know why you're here
Look, why don't we just forget about Tammy? We'll have the assembly tomorrow, everybody'll make their speeches, and I'm sure everything will be fine.
Tim Kobza? Tim Kobza! Who's he? I've never heard of him!
Looks like Tim Kobza.
These are a bunch of burn-outs. And look at this one, I can't even read this one.
As far as I know, they--
Are you sure all her signatures are real? It's not easy to get all those signatures.
Calm down, Tracy. Just calm down.
You're the advisor. You should stop her. She's not qualified. She's just a sophomore.
So like I was saying, things were going pretty well in my life.
Fuck me, Mr. McAllister
Good luck, Tracy.
Okay. That's good. I just wanted to make sure.
You know, Mr. M., when I win the presidency, that means you and I are going to be spending a lot of time together next year. And I for one would like that time to be harmonious and productive. Wouldn't you?
Yeah. Okay. well, good luck Tracy
Hell, you know, Coca-Cola's the world's number one soft drink, but they spend more money than anybody on advertising. I guess that's how come they stay number one.
Should be easy. So far no competition.
I can't wait to start campaigning.
Thanks for everything.
Okay, fine. Sure
I thought you were supposed to keep them.
NO, that's fine
Aren't you supposed to keep them?
Looks good to me.
Could you approve them now? I'd like to kick off my campaign right away, you know, in the morning.
You can put those in my box. I'll look at them tomorrow.
Here they are.
Hey, that's super
I got all my signatures. One hundred and fifty-eight -- way more than I need!
Oh. There's one more thing about Tracy I think you should know.
...the rules of conduct determined by a culture at a...
Now at the end of her junior year, Tracy was poised to win the presidency of the student body. And so far she was running unopposed.
Okay. But we're still missing something key here. What are we missing?
Thanks, Mr. M.
Well, good luck there, Tracy
Yes, I do.
You know what they say about the early bird.
Not wasting any time, are you, Tracy?
Good morning, Mr. McAllister.
Oh yeah, you bet.
Well, that speech she gave -- it was pretty, you know, pretty out there. But we'll get to the bottom of it. Don't you worry. Mr. McAllister is going to see to that. Right, Jim?
Even tried you at home. We've got a situation here.
Nowhere. I don't have class until second period.
Jim, where the hell have you been?
Yeah... whatever. All I know is she's a troublemaker. She's on my list.
Walt, we can't throw her out of the election just because we don't like her speech. That's not what student government's about.
That little bitch made a fool of us I want her out of the election. Getting everybody all riled up like that. She's finished, you hear me? Washed up.
Thanks. Well. I'm going home now.
Okay, Jim. I understand.
Walt will be speaking with you about this, but I need you to find someone to take over my classes. The lesson plans for the rest of the year are in my top right drawer.
Walt needs to see you.
Life would go on, and I would certainly be a stronger and wiser person from the experience.
I have proof.
I don't believe you.
I don't know. All I know is I did it I
Door was open.
And how did you get in the school?
I don't know. Yesterday. Sunday.
And when did you do it?
I did it.
Looks at her skeptically doesn't say a word.
I'm the one. I did it. I tore down Paul's posters.
What is it. Tammy?
Well, this is hard for me, but I think it's important to be honest. Don't you?
So... what do you have to tell me?
Okay. Because I know who did it. So.. I'll just be outside.
Possibly. Please just wait outside.
Okay. But is this about the posters?
Just wait outside. Tammy.
You wanted to see me, Mr. M.?
Me? I took advantage of you? You hugged me! You kissed me! You're the one who --
I was lonely. You took advantage
A mistake? That was no mistake.
We made a mistake. Let's not make it worse.
It's the only true thing I know anymore.
Don't say that. You know it's not true.
Sherry... I love you.
Yeah. I'm here.
What do you want, Jim?
Easy, tiger. Come by after school. I'll leave Darryl with the sitter.
Take me to that motel. Like you wanted.
We'll let it run awhile
All his life. He's tried everything.
No, I... uh, didn't know that
Did you know Dave's a bed wetter?
Shall we give it a name?
points at the motel.
Should we get a what?
So what do you think? Should we get a room?
Oh, come on. You've had a hard year, you're cooped up with the kid all the time. Let go; live a little.
I can't afford this stuff right now.
Okay. Give me the drill.
More this way.
Without Dave around. Sherry needed a lot of help around the house.
Could you get this? I can't
Your novel? Are you fucking kidding me?
After Dave got fired, Sherry kicked him out of the house and filed for divorce.
Don't worry about Tracy. She'll be fine.
Just one more thing. So, Mr. M., uh, do you think Tracy's going to be okay? I saw her face after the assembly, and I think she's taking it pretty hard.
Oh, okay. Yeah, sorry.
Paul... Paul.... We'll have plenty of time to get into all this later. A whole year, in fact. Right now I just need to finish my pie and get home.
And on Halloween we could have a haunted house. But a really good haunted house, not like those cheesy bad ones. You know, more like the radio station ones. This one would be really scary. And for Homecoming -- well, you know how last year's theme was -
Why don't you guys go sit down, okay? I'll catch up in a minute? I want to talk to Mr. M. about some important stuff.
Oh, no. No. I'm just finishing up here, and I've got to get home.
Exactly. So what do you say? Maybe it's time to give a little something back.
I also like bananas.
Fine. Let's say all you ever knew was apples. Apples, apples and more apples. You might think apples were pretty good, even if you occasionally got a rotten one. Then one day there's an orange. And now you can make a decision. Do you want an apple, or do you want an orange? That's democracy.
No, wait -- apples. Apples.
Okay, let's say
takes a piece of chalk from the lip of the blackboard.
Huh? Oh. Uh... pears
Paul, what's your favorite fruit?
Yeah. But one person assured of victory kind of undermines the whole idea of a democracy, doesn't it? That's more like a... well, like a dictatorship, like we studied.
And she's super-nice
Yeah, no, she's a go-getter, all right.
Who, me? Nooo. I never... I don't know anything about that stuff, Mr. M. Besides, that's Tracy Flick's thing. She's always working so hard and --
Let me give you a clue. You're a born leader. You're one of the most popular students at Millard. You're honest and straightforward. You don't choke under pressure, as we all saw in that amazing fourth quarter against Westside. The other kids look up to you. What does that spell?
What do you mean?
But you've got a big choice right now. You can choose to be depressed about it for the rest of your life. Or you can choose to see it for what it really is: an opportunity. I personally think you have a big future ahead of you, and I don't mean the fleeting glory of sports.
I know. I understand disappointment. I really do.
I wanted to play next year so bad I could taste it. And maybe go on to...
Paul, I know you've been pretty down since your accident.
Larry, you just take it easy
You said I was a liar You're the liar, you're the --
I'm telling you. Dr. Hendricks, every vote was accounted for.
Whoa! Easy, Fouch. I don't like where you're going.
If you say so.
And 290 "disregards," right?
Sorry. My figures work out exactly the same as Jim's. 256 for Paul, 255 for Tracy.
No way I It doesn't make sense.
253... 254... 255. I get the same as you Jim. Looks like Paul's our president.
Well, I do.
I don't care.
But other people can see them too.
These are private -- these are for us.
People can see this.
Are you crazy?
I'm not a dyke, okay, and we're not in love. We were just... I was just experimenting.
I'm not like you.
Where 're you going?
I told you ... I can't. I just -- It doesn't feel right anymore, you know?
Oh, no, hey. Like I said. Tammy wouldn't... she...
It was Tammy I That's who it was.
We still have some extra ones, don't we? Maybe we can just --
I don't know. You're her brother you should know.
I mean at you.
She's doing this to get back at me
It's a conflict of interest. And Paul was first.
We can't both run, can we? We're brother and sister. Can we?
Uhhh... teeth. Teeth.
Thanks. You too. It was great working with you.
Have a great summer. And good luck at college.
Oh, yeah, sure. Hey Nolan, give my book to Tracy when you're done*
Can I sign yours too?
Paul, will you sign my yearbook?
You know, I don't understand why everybody bad-mouthed Tracy all the time. She was always super- nice to me.
Yeah, you too, Tracy. I'm just glad it's over.
Paul, I just want you to know that no matter how this turns out, you've run a wonderful campaign. It's been fun competing with you.
Good luck to you too, Paul.
Hell, good luck!
Way to go, Tracy! Isn't this exciting?
Okay, Mr. Popular. You're on.
Well, I mean, you know, I talked to him and everything, but he just said he thought it was a good idea... and how there's all different kinds of fruit and... It's nothing against you, Tracy. You're the best. I just thought --
So Mr. McAllister asked you to run.
Well, see, I was talking to Mr. McAllister about my leg and everything... and how I still want to, you know, do something for the school and --
No. Uh... I just... you know, I just thought --
You just woke up this morning and suddenly decided to run for president?
What do you mean?
Who put you up to this?
Huh? Oh, hi, Tracy
Who put you up to this?
Okay. Great. I feel good.
Sure, Paul. No hard feelings.
Yeah. Oh, one more thing. Tammy. You know, all this election stuff. 'Cause, you know, everyone is saying it's so weird that you're running against me, and, well, it is kind of weird, and you haven't really told me why you're doing it and didn't tell me in advance or anything. But that's okay, you know. l respect your privacy. I just want you to know that no matter who wins, if it's you or me, there's no hard feelings. We're still brother and sister. Okay? Cause... and I hope you feel the same.
Now could you leave me alone?
Okay, Paul. Thanks. Thanks a lot.
I just thought, well, last time you got suspended you fell so behind and -
Oh. Hi, Tammy. I was just, you know, I went to all your teachers and got your assignments.
What do you want?
You know how they say one day a big meteor might come and crash into the Earth and kill everybody? Well, I think that would be a good thing.
What'd I do?
So Mr. M. calls me in and tells me --
Paul, get out!
Yeah. So guess what happened. So Mr. McAllister, he -- Oh hi. Lisa.
Don't you fucking knock?
Hey, Tammy, guess what happened today.
You wanna buy your brother ten years...? You don't have to say anything. Just look at this list and point. Here.
You wanna get me a fuckin' snitch jacket?
We're looking for three colored guys who like to pop off shotguns. One of 'em owns a purple Merc coupe.
How'd you like to make it 1960? I know the judge and Sergeant Exley here is friends with hte D.A.
You got a brother up in Folsom. I know because I put him there.
What do you want, Mr. Policeman?
I saw you fight Kid Gavilan. I like your style.
What's it to you?
How's the left these days?
No. Now. You fucked him.
In the morning.
So tell me about it.
You gonna tell me what happened with you and Exley?
Come in out of the rain, Bud.
How'd you get to know so much about him?
He's the opposite of you. He's more like me. Cold, calculating.
I want to know about Exley.
Come in out of the rain. In the morning we'll have both our stories for breakfast.
Did you talk to Exley?
That simple, huh?
You found Patchett. You found me. You're smart enough. Be a detective if that's what you want.
I used to. What I do now is strong-arm. Sitting duck stuff... No, I don't like it. If I could work Homicide like a real detective...
Do you like being a cop, Bud?
Yeah. But not for long.
So you saved her.
When I was ten, my old man threw a bottle at my mother. I guess I got in the way.
It doesn't matter. All they get is Veronica Lake. You got the real Lynn Margaret Bracken... Where'd this come from?
I wondered when you might ring the bell again, Officer White.
Forget I asked. It was a mistake.
If it's a date I think you'd better tell me your first name because I --
I don't know.
Are you asking me for a date or an appointment?
Look. I want to see you again.
No. I'm really a brunette, but the rest is me. And that's all the news that's fit to print.
He had you cut to look like Veronica Lake?
He takes a cut of our earnings and invests it for us. He makes us quit the life at thirty. He doesn't let us use narcotics and he doesn't abuse us. Can your policeman's mentality grasp those contradictions?
You look better than Veronica Lake. Now, <u>Pierce Patchett</u>.
Actually, it was two. You're different, Officer White. You're the first man in five years who didn't tell me I look like Veronica Lake inside of a minute.
Yeah, just like the half dozen guys you screwed today.
But you did it anyway.
I'm not sure.
Did they deserve it today?
When they deserve it.
Do you enjoy it?
There's blood on your shirt. Is that an integral part of your job?
You fuck for money.
You say 'fuck' a lot.
Maybe I'm just fucking curious.
I remember you from Christmas Eve. You have a thing for helping women, don't you, Officer White?
Miss Bracken, don't ever try to fucking bribe me or threaten me or I'll have you and Patchett in shit up to your ears.
You want some advice, Miss Bracken?
He's waiting for you to mention mention.
Tell me about Patchett.
Pierce meets people. Sue came on the bus with dreams of Hollywood. This is how they turned out. Thanks to Pierce, we still get to act a little.
How'd she meet Patchett?
Like I said we were friendly, not friends.
Did Lefferts have a boyfriend?
I don't know. I never heard of the Nite Owl till today.
Why was Susan Lefferts at the Nite Owl?
That's right. Our motives are selfish, so we're cooperating.
Yeah I know. Patchett's running whores and judging by his address, probably something bigger on the side. He doesn't want any attention.
Yes. But do you know?
You use words like that, you might make me mad.
No I haven't. Do you know why Pierce is humoring you?
Have you ever heard of Dick Stensland?
Of course I am. What kind of question is that?
Are you sorry she's dead?
I was friendly with Sue Lefferts, but we weren't really friends. You know what I mean?
Yeah, plain scotch.
Can I get you a drink?
It's not what you think.
Somebody hit you?
It's practically stamped on your forehead.
That obvious, huh?
Merry Christmas yourself, <u>Officer</u>.
Sure, boss. Sure you can.
You have your extracurricular secrets, I have mine. We'll hold a clarification session soon. For now, I need your fearsome old habits at the Victory Motel. We're going to brace a man who may know who killed Jack Vincennes. Can I count on you?
You lost me, Dudley. I don't know what you're talking about.
Imagine crime limited to the criminal element who perpetrate it. Imagine the means to keep the nigger filth sedated. But don't stop there. Extrapolate. Imagine the police in control. It's big, lad.
I've long been involved in containing hard crime in such a way that myself and a few colleagues might someday enjoy a profit dispensation. That day will soon be here and you'll share handsomely. Grand means will be in our hands, Wendell.
You're perplexing to me these days, Wendell. You're not your old, cruel self anymore. I need proof that the extracurricular work I had planned for you remains within your grasp.
You've got it, Wendell.
Give me one minute.
How'd you get them to retract?
How what, Wendell?
Of course... But how?
Will you work for me?
Homicide? A detective?
I need you for an assignment the Chief's given me the go-ahead on. A duty few men are fit for, but you were born for. You'll be working out of Homicide.
Four of the defendants recanted their testimony.
I knew you had juice, but... There's no goddamn bill on me?
They're yours. Take them.
Doing what? Mowing your fucking lawn?
Wendell, I want you to come to work for me.
<u>What do you want</u>?
Don't underestimate his skills. As a politician he exceeds even myself. But the department needs smart men like Exley and... direct men like yourself
Him and me both. <u>Fucking Exley</u>.
Your partner's through. Department scapegoat on the Chief's orders. He's been billed, he'll be indicted and he'll swing.
He helped me out once. That's all.
It would've happened years ago if you hadn't carried him. Why the loyalty, Wendell?
What's going to happen to Stensland? He'll give himself cirrhosis over this. <u>He's one</u> <u>year from his pension</u>.
And for good reason judging from what I know of your background.
Yeah, I hate them.
Lad, I admire your refusal to testify and your loyalty to your partner. I admire you as a policeman, particularly your adherence to violence as a necessary adjutant to the job. And I am most impressed with your punishment of wife beaters. Do you hate them, Wendell?
Dudley, what do you want?
Call me Dudley.
Captain, what do you want?
He made his play amd he got what he wanted. They're making him a detective.
Does that paper say we've been indicted? Does it say Exley's a hero for squealing me and Stensland off?
Say goodnight to your friend and join me by those back tables.
This business, Captain?
Lad, may I have a word with you?
It's confidential, Bud. Like that magazines Vincennes scams for. <u>Hush-Hush</u>. I'll see you tomorrow. And hey, if it works out, you'll get a piece of it.
What are you talking about?
No. I'll tell you sometime. Not now. Don't want to jinx it. But it could take the edge off that jail time I got coming.
What? That new mystery girl you've been seeing?
Rain check me, partner. I got something big going on tonight.
Yeah, sure... I got a couple of hours before I have to be at the Victory. Want to grab a beer?
Don't look so down in the mouth, Bud. You nailed him good.
I got to write my report first.
Hey, partner. Grab a cup.
Seen him around. He used to be a cop.
You know him?
Yeah. A great big one.
Was it... a rat?
I came home that night and there was blood on the floor. Susan said Stams -- Stens had cut himself. They were acting nervous. And that Stens kept going under the house.
Easy. Tell me about the ruckus.
Don't mind the smell. I think a rat died behind the wall... My Susie was a good girl!
No! Please leave!
What's through here?
You said a neighbor heard a ruckus. Was it outside, inside?
That's him. That's him.
Look at a picture for me.
Maybe. I don't know.
Stens? Was it Stens?
We were never properly introduced. Susan and I were fighting that day. She called him by a nickname. Muns or Lunts or something.
What was that boyfriend's name?
Susie, I told you I didn't approve of that boyfriend. He was too old for you. You let him come into this house and be fresh to me. I went out one day and old Mrs. Jensen next door saw Susan's boyfriend and another man and thought she heard a ruckus.
Ma'am, I'm sure she was.
First I want to go on record as saying that my Susie was a virgin when she died.
Tell me about the boyfriend she had. The one you mentioned at the morgue.
Five minutes. That's all.
Let my daughter rest in peace.
Mrs. Lefferts, I'm Officer White with the L.A.P.D. I'd like to ask a couple of questions.
I spent years trying not to live down to mine.
You know, all I ever wanted was to measure up to my father.
A lot of bad stuff happened here. It's as good a place as any for it to end.
You figured this was a set-up? And you showed up anyway?
Me? You called it. I got a message that...
You wanted to meet here?
We should check the records, and, we should talk to Lynn.
They never made a match on the shotgun serial numbers. What if Breuning and Carlisle took them from the evidence room? Couple of cold pieces that had been hanging around a year or two.
If I let you go, there'll be ten more lawyers to take your place tomorrow. They just won't come on the bus, that's all.
Jack thought he was up to his neck in all this.
What about him?
Patchett's dead. He sent you after me. I'd say Dudley's tying up his loose ends.
At least not anymore.
We had one thing figured wrong. I don't think Dudley workd for Patchett.
He had help getting up there. Two of his fingers are broken.
It's a suicide note. Says he killed Jack because Jack had figured out a pornography scam Patchett was running.
Patchett uses a lot of ex-cop muscle.
You expecting problems?
Which one are you and which one am I?
Let's go see Pierce Patchett. Run a good-cop-bad-cop.
With a wrecking ball. You want to help me swing it?
There are no rules! Why the fuck are you doing this? The Nite Owl made you. You want to tear all that down.
Stay smart, Bud. We build a case. We play by the rules.
For Jack, for Stensland, for anybody else who got in the way. I've been trying to be smart. A detective. But killing those two fuckers, that would be justice.
Let's just kill them.
Pierce Patchett figures in, too. That's the angle Jack was working. Dudley must work for Patchett.
It's Dudley for the Nite Owl.
It all keeps coming back to Dudley.
They didn't find the shotguns. They planted them.
The first guys to the car when Jack and I got there were Bruening and Carlisle.
It wasn't the Negroes. The Griffith Park report was a phony. And, who says the purple Merc was spotted outside the Nite Owl?
Somebody got wind of it, killed them all.
The Nite Owl! Stensland was going there to sell the heroin.
Then something goes wrong. Meeks gets killed. Maybe Stens got greedy, killed Meeks and left him under his girlfriend's house. The night he died, Stens was all mysterious. Said he had something big going down.
<u>Stensland and Buzz Meeks</u>. Two-man triggers knocking off Mickey Cohen lieutenants. When they killed Deuce Perkins, they got heroin as a bonus.
Johnny Stompanato told me when Meeks disappeared, he was trying to move the 18 pounds of heroin that went missing when Deuce Perkins was shot.
Stensland and Meeks. What were they up to?
I knew Stensland and Meeks knew each other. Meeks was with Sue Lefferts on Christmas Eve. The night I met Lynn. Lefferts' mother I.D.ed Stensland as Lefferts' boyfriend, but Stens pretended he didn't know either one of them.
She told you?
You don't know what the word means, you dumb bastard.
It'll look like justice. That's what that fat fuck got. <u>Justice</u>.
How's it going to look on your report?
Get the fuck away from me.
A naked guy with a gun? You expect anyone to believe that?
Officer White, put down that weapon and --
One in six. Where's the girl?
Someone held up a coffee shop, panicked and killed six people.
Hell of a way to avoid a prison sentence.
Yeah, that's Stens.
It's a surprise. You like surprises, don't you, White?
Where are we going?
Of course... this is personal with you, isn't it, Mr. White?
I got her address.
No, Mr. White. Pierce Morehouse Patchett. Now, I sense you're on your best behavior, but that's all I'll give you. If you persist, I'll meet you with my attorney. Now, would you like Miss Bracken's address? I doubt she knows anything, but --
That's why her mother couldn't I.D. her... Jesus fucking Christ.
There's Gardner, Hepburn, Grable, Turner. Lynn Bracken is my Veronica Lake. I use girls who look like movie stars. Sometimes I employ a plastic surgeon.
What little studio?
I needed a Rita Hayworth to fill out my little studio.
Wait. Our deal still holds?
You wanna go downtown and discuss this officially?
I think she'd been hit in the face with a tennis racket. She is -- was -- a big doubles fan.
Why were Lefferts' eyes black?
Then listen closely, because I'll only say this once and if it gets repeated, I'll deny it. I run call girls. Lynn Bracken is one of them and so was Susan Lefferts. I treat my girls very well. I have grown daughters, myself, and I don't like the thought of women being hurt. I sense you share this feeling.
Then you wouldn't feel obligated to report them?
Do you care about criminal matters peripheral to Susan's murder?
I don't have one. Lefferts looked beat-up Christmas Eve, but didn't act it. How come?
Against your code?
Thanks, but no thanks.
He no longer works for me. Find Susan's killer, Mr. White. I'll give you a handsome reward. <u>Whatever you desire</u>.
Where's the other guy? Buzz.
Sue Lefferts died at the Nite Owl. I'm investigating.
We met outside Hollywood Liquors on Christmas Eve. This is where Lynn Bracken's booze bills go.
You know I do or you wouldn't be here. How did you find me?
Officer White. How about Susan Lefferts? You know her?
I don't know him. Mr...
I was here, hosting a party. Who was killed and why do you think I can help?
I'm a homicide detective. Where were you last night?
I am. Are you soliciting for police charities? The last time, you people called at my office.
Are you Pierce Patchett?
I'm not asking you.
I don't know. I swear it!
He's under a tract house in San Berdoo. And he don't smell too good. What happened to the heroin, Johnny?
Meeks is probably in Rio or someplace like that by now.
Deuce Perkins. Mickey C's narcotics lieutenant. The night he got clipped, eighteen pounds of Mickey's heroin went missing.
Bullshit. Where would a two-bit ex-cop get 18 pounds of heroin?
Before Meeks disappeared he was popping off about trying to move eighteen pounds of heroin.
How 'bout I give you your balls back?
More's gonna cost you.
Oh, yeah. That was a long time ago. Before your day. The last few years he's been muscle for hire. But I heard he's disappeared.
His file listed you as a known associate. Now spill.
You remember an ex-cop named Buzz Meeks? He works for a guy named Patchett.
What do you want, <u>officer</u>?
I ain't your <u>paesano</u>, you wop cocksucker.
Wendell White, how's tricks, <u>paesano</u>?
And you fuck people up for a living. That don't make me you. <u>Capisce</u>, shitbird?
Officer White. I heard you got a hard-on for wife beaters.
It's like they knew they were going to kill everyone before they went in...
What do you mean?
It doesn't exactly play like dumb panic.
Exactly. At least one of those animals had the brains to protect his ears.
Cotton balls. I found them just inside the meat locker door.
Dick Stensland. Had to be dumb panic. If she knew him she would've been sitting with him... Right?
But she's moving away from the door. Who was sitting at this table?
It looks like she was flailing, trying to get away.
If she was sitting here, then it's facing the wrong way. What are these smears in the blood?
You mean beside the fact that thirty-five out of forty-five rounds were gratuitous? I can't think of anything.
Anything off. Anything that didn't make sense.
What do you want to know?
I'm tying up loose ends. Padding my report. You know how it goes.
I don't know if you read the papers, but that case is closed.
I got a few Nite Owl questions.
Bud White, what brings you down to the basement?
All right, Ed. Call Sergeant Vincennes.
Jack Vincennes. He's the technical advisor on 'Badge of Honor,' sir. He lives for it. That's the way to get him.
I know that, sir. I also know that when he made lieutenant, it was as a detective.
Ed, you're 30. Your father didn't make lieutenant until he was 33.
And I'll promote you. You'll be a lieutenant immediately.
I'll testify, sir. I'm not afraid to do what's right.
I want to know who we give the public in contrast? The department needs role models. Clean-cut, <u>forthright</u> men the public can admire.
The public demands justice, sir. This was a full-fledged riot of policemen. Shift the guilt to men whose pensions are secured. Force them to retire. But someone has to swing. Indict, try and convict Stensland and Bud White. Secure them jail time. Feed them to the sharks, sir. Protect yourself; protect the department.
Ed, your observations have been astute. What's your assessment of this situation?
Just show me where they are!
I don't have time. I have --
Where are the police academy files?
Someone must've pulled the records.
So on active duty, Meeks didn't make an arrest from 1938 to '43.
Until he gunned down six people.
More or less.
I got the rap sheets on the black guys, sir. Coates and Jones got charges a mile long. But except for some kid stuff, Fontaine's clean.
Where do they get their stuff? Come on. Give me one to feed the D.A. Just a little one.
Ty and Larry fuck with that shit, not me.
Were you on hop? You were passed out when you got arrested. Were you hopped up, Ray?
I got nothin' more to say till I see a judge.
You guys were arrested this morning, but none of you have last night's clothes. <u>You</u> were seen burning them. Add to that the fact that you hid the car you were cruising around in last night and it doesn't look good.
Why were you throwing clothes in the building incinerator?
I don't own no shotguns.
Ray, we got the shotguns.
Man, what're you saying?
Oh? you feel that way about people, too?
Dogs got no reason to live.
I heard you like to shoot dogs.
You ain't woofin' I did. Stupid down home niggers got no more sense than a fuckin' dog.
Ray, you protected Ty and Larry up in Casitas, didn't you?
Man, why're you talkin' about Larry? His business is his business.
Nothing, Ray. That Larry, he's a pisser. You did the Casitas Youth Camp with him, didn't you?
That fucking Larry. I almost believed him.
I never truck with no sissies!
Just getting my facts straight. Twenty-two makes it a gas chamber bounce. You should have pulled this caper a couple of years ago. Get life, do a little Youth Authority jolt, transfer to Folsom a big man. Orbit on some of that good prison brew, get yourself a sissy --
Man, why do you keep asking me that?
You look like Robinson after that last LaMotta fight. 'Course LaMotta looked a lot worse. So you're twenty-two, right?
Did one of the officers work you over a little?
Say what and so what.
You're twenty-two, aren't you, Ray?
Some ferstunkener is moving in and we don't know who?! Maybe we should ask Hedda Hopper!
Gone. Not a trace.
And what about the merchandise Deuce was holding for me?
Nobody. At least not yet.
I don't want a floor plan; I want to know who! Who's taking the ticket for this, Johnny?
They shot him in his library.
What do you mean Deuce Perkins got clipped last night?!
In my car. Blackmail shit. The trunk under the carpet. Patchett got me to photograph a cop fucking this gorgeous cunt Lynn, looks just like Veronicaaa --
He runs call girls. Primo tail. Fixed up like movie stars.
Reciprocity, Mr. Hudgeons, is the key to all relationships.
Okay. Okay. Everyone knows Patchett's worth a boat-load of greenbacks. From aviation, freeway construction. But the man has hobbies, too. He bankrolls B movies under the table and runs movie star look-alike hookers. And try this on: he's rumored to be a periodic heroin sniffer. All in all a powerful behind-the- scenes strange-o.
Alright. We'll drop that line for now. Next topic. Please comment on Pierce Patchett.
Okay so we worked together. It was an information exchange. I got him first class collars and he got me good stories. We were friends for Chrissakes!
What does that have to do --
But you were business associates?
Take it easy! I didn't have anything to do with him getting killed if that's what you mean.
Trashcan Jack. The Big V. I can tell you he's on the Night Train to the big adios.
It's for your own safety. Now what can you tell us about Sergeant John Vincennes?
I'm happy to cooperate. You don't need to tie me down.
This is Mr. Hudgeons, Wendell.
<u>Really</u>? Would you be willing to rig crime scene evidence to support a prosecuting attorney's working hypothesis?
Something like that.
Why not, lad? Absolute justice?
Absolutely. Prostitution and gambling are victimless crimes. The heroin we'll run down to the coloreds. Anesthetize them. As long as it's not a middle class problem, no one will care. It's still a crime free city... for respectable people.
And now you'll provide them.
A vacuum, Edmund. That's what we have in Los Angeles. Sending Mickey Cohen up created it. My containment work maintained it. Certain photographs guarantee it. Organized crime has been held back, but there's still a demand for the services it provides.
Jack was a shame, but Dick Stensland had the audacity to try to sell me my own heroin. Through his whore girl friend. I sent him to make the buy. The rest is history.
Tell that to Jack Vincennes. To Stensland.
I'm loathe to kill my brother officers, Edmund.
Anonymous. Probably nothing.
No... Where'd the tip come from?
Something's wrong. I feel it inside. Doesn't that sound crazy?
There always are. But there are also three men and three guns. Matched forensically. A few loose ends don't matter.
There are loose ends out there, Dudley. I --
She may still be alive, whoever she is.
Don't get sidetracked. Stay with the Nite Owl.
I'll break them, sir.
Ed, I want confessions.
Get on it.
We got a call earlier on three Negro youths. Firing shotguns in Griffith Park from a late-model purple Mercury Coupe.
It's mine. I'll make you my second in command.
Yes, I do, sir.
Edmund, you don't want it and you can't have it.
Sir, I took the call. It's my case.
His blood's always up.
You should stay away from a man when his blood is up.
So be it.
Yes, Dudley. I am.
You'll reap the benefits, but are you truly prepared to be despised within the department?
No, Edmund. He's a man who can answer yes to those questions I ask you from time to time.
White's a mindless thug.
Stensland's a disgrace. Straight D fitness reports from every C.O. he ever served under. But White is a valuable officer.
At least get rid of the glasses. I can't think of one Bureau man who wears them.
I know you mean well, Dudley, but I don't need to do it the way you did. Or my father.
Then for God's sake, don't be a detective. Stick to assignments where you won't have to make those choices. Patrol, Internal Affairs, but not the Bureau.
Would you be willing to shoot hardened criminals in the back to offset the chance --
Would you be willing to beat confessions out of suspects you knew to be guilty?
Would you be willing to rig crime scene evidence to support a prosecuting attorney's working hypothesis...? Yes or no, Edmund.
Answer yes or no.
Dudley, we've been over this.
Am I...? Would you be willing to plant corroborative evidence on a suspect you knew was guilty in order to ensure an indictment?
I was thinking Detective Bureau.
You'll make lieutenant inside a year. Patrol division?
The youngest applicant by eight years.
That was his favorite toast. I saw the test results on the lieutenant's exam. You placed first out of twenty-three.
Not even with Exley?
Have you discussed this with anyone else, John?
Don't start trying to do the right thing, John. You haven't had enough practice.
It's a private investigation. I fucked something up and I want to make amends.
You're Narco, lad, not Homicide. And since when do you work with Edmund?
Part of it has to do with a murder. I've been working with Ed Exley on it.
What's this all about, lad?
Twelve years ago he worked a vice roust with Dick Stensland. They arrested a Pierce Patchett on an extortion scam. Guy ran hookers. He'd have them photographed with their johns, then double-dip for some blackmail. Charges got dropped. Insufficient evidence. You were supervising officer on the case and I was wondering if you remember anything about it.
A disgrace as a policeman. Straight D fitness reports from every C.O. he ever served under. What about him?
You remember Buzz Meeks, Dudley?
Lucky for you that my wife and four fair daughters are at the beach in Santa Barbara.
Two minutes, Dudley. It's important.
John Vincennes. It's three A.M., lad.
I think you'll be surprised what Edmund's capable of.
You think golden boy can handle it, Cap?
Okay. I'll do it.
John, I doubt you've ever drawn a stupid breath. Don't start now.
Great. You get the girl, I get the coroner.
I'm going to Lynn Bracken's. I'll meet you at the Dining Car.
What are you going to do?
She <u>is</u> Lana Turner.
She is Lana Turner.
Yeah. But first I want to brace Stompanato.
High line whores. With plastic surgery to look like movie stars. And who knows what else? It's run by this guy Pierce Patchett. You want to talk to him?
Movie star hookers. Whatever you desire... It's Fleur-fr-Lis again.
Rita Hayworth at the morgue and now Veronica Lake with White. What the hell's going on?
Jesus... Maybe White's not so dumb after all.
Bud White. He sees us and we're dead.
What's that for?
A third. I don't think we can make a case without Bud White.
Okay, college boy, I'll help you. But I want half the collar.
I want to do it right.
The Nite Owl was solved, Lieutenant.
I've given up angles for awhile. I just want to solve this thing.
I'm trying to figure what angle you're playing <u>this</u> time, but I sure as hell can't see one.
Rollo's the reason I became a cop. I wanted to catch the guys who thought they could get away with it. It was supposed to be about truth and justice and Rollo. But somewhere along the way I forgot all that... How about you, Jack? Why'd you become a cop?
So what's the point?
Rollo was a purse snatcher. My father ran into him off duty. He shot my father six times and got away clean. No one even knew who he was. I made the name up to give him some personality.
Is there more to that, or do I have to guess?
You should be the last person who wants to dig any deeper into the Nite Owl, <u>Lieutenant</u>.
It's a simple question.
Do you make the three Negroes for the Nite Owl killings?
I ain't a priest, Lieutenant. I can't hear your confession.
Listen, I think I made a mistake, too.
Yeah. My whole life.
You make a mistake?
Transfer me, suspend me. Just leave me alone.
Yesterday yes, today no. What happened last night?
Yesterday that might've meant something. Pull me off. You'd be doing me a big favor.
It's not a request. I need to know what White knows. Follow him or I'll have you pulled off 'Badge of Honor.' Permanently.
Even I'm not that crazy.
I want you to follow Bud White.
Give me a minute, will ya?
I need to speak to you.
Just don't shoot me.
<u>Shit</u>. Someone beat us here.
I'm snitching three old timers who'll be fishing in Oregon next week. Next to you I'm clean. And smart.
What about you?
You're playing an angle, college boy. You're getting something out of this so you don't have to hobnob with the fucking rank and file cops who'll hate your guts for snitching. If they're making you a detective, watch out. Some Bureau guys are gonna burn in this and you're gonna have to work with friends of theirs.
You're the payoff expert. I'm just doing my duty.
Yeah, Exley. What's the payoff?
I should've known. What's the Chief throwing you?
You're the key witness?
Of his penis, sir?
I get the idea. You got a description?
With tinsel and plastic icicles and... on his penis, sir.
A guy dressed as Santa has been exposing himself to kids in Los Feliz. Apparently, sir, he's decorated himself.
What's on the call sheet?
I got Vincennes in the next room. It's not a good week for cops in general.
We got a dead ex-cop and a girl who looks like Rita Hayworth at the Nite Owl. Another dead ex-cop under the house of Rita's mother. It's not a good week for ex-cops.
Bud White grilled me on it this morning. You know, he's not as dumb as I thought.
What are you talking about?
Yeah. The fact that you guys won't let it get filed away.
The Nite Owl. Anything bothering you about the case?
Hold on... We need to canvass. See if a purple Mercury was seen around here tonight.
We got a total of forty-five spent 12-gauge Remington shotgun shells. Three men with five-shot-capacity pumps. All of them reloading twice.
Then try talking to my lawyer. Good evening, gentlemen.
Not good enough.
Anything else you want to add before I talk to her?
Why do men and women usually see each other?
Why's she seeing Bud White?
What's her name?
A vulgar term, but yes.
Is the Veronica Lake look-alike one of your whores?
For the last time. I may suborn women into illicit activities, but they're handsomely compensated, I treat them well and make sure the men they deal with show them every due respect.
Bud White's been here?
I'll tell you what I told Officer White when he asked me about Susan's death.
Some men get the world. Others get ex-hookers and a trip to Arizona.
Do you think I ever could've been in the running?
Where is he?
Right now, before I back down.
Bisbee, Arizona. The air's good for pensioners and I know where everything is.
Where will you go?
I know how he feels.
Okay. Look, if it helps, Bud hates himself for what he did.
I work for Patchett. I had a feeling that there was someone else, but I never knew who.
A police captain. I think he's behind all of this.
Forget everything else for a second, Lynn. Is there anything you can give me on Dudley Smith?
If I knew you were coming I'd have baked a cake.
Actually, Bud's only tough on the outside.
You, me and White, huh?
Like recognizes like. I'm pretty tough, myself.
You're the first person to ever call me tough.
You're tougher than Bud thinks you are.
Because you'll use it against me. Won't you?
No. This is the means to the reality. But I'm not going to tell you what it is.
I came out here with a dream. That's gone, but I settled for reality.
You cut to the heart of things, don't you? What about Lynn Bracken? She going to be a hooker all her life?
You don't like that you don't know how to play him. He doesn't follow the same rules of politics you do. That makes him dangerous.
I don't hate White. I really don't. It's just, in my business, it's the wild cars you have to watch out for.
Does all that make it harder for you to hate him or easier?
I see Bud because he makes me feel like Lynn Bracken and not some Veronica Lake look-alike who fucks for money. I see him because he doesn't know how to disguise who he is. There's more if you want to hear it.
I'll take your word for it.
I see Bud because I want to. I see Bud because he can't hide the warmth he has inside him.
I want to know why you see him. Is it a Patchett payoff?
You want to know what Bud's like in bed?
How about White?
The silver screen's loss is your gain.
You sound like you mean it.
Oh, the best I ever had. Absolutely the best.
How was I?
The way you've underestimated Bud White?
Don't underestimate me, Miss Bracken.
It galls you that I know so much about you. You don't have information to compete.
I'm curious about you.
He can take care of himself and I'm not afraid of you. And you forgot one thing, Lieutenant. Pierce also taught me how to fuck... Can I get you a drink?
Let's concentrate on my smarts. Pierce Patchett made you, didn't he? He taught you how to dress and talk and think and I am very impressed with the results. But I need some answers and if I don't get them, I'm going to take you and Patchett down.
He said you were smart. He also said you were competing with your dead father. How did he put it? Trying to measure up to a ghost.
Really? What did White say?
I know who you are. You're the policeman Bud told me about.
Miss Bracken, I'm Lieutenant Exley.
What's Dudley's scheme?
Okay! You're right! Dudley's got photos of me and Reynolds.
I'm not going to dignify youwith answers. If you'll excuse me, I've got a Jack Vincennes press conference to prepare for.
The proof had his throat slit. So far you're not denying it.
Do you have any proof?
Without what, his smearing yours first? What's he got on you, Loew? Pictures of you and an out of work actor with your pants down?
Absolutely not. Dudley Smith is a highly decorated member of this city's police department and I won't smear his name without --
None. Call it a hunch.
On what evidence?
I want D.A. bureau men to tail Dudley Smith twenty-four hours a day; I want you to get a judge to authorize a wire tap on his home phone; I want authorization to check his bank records and I want it all in an hour.
It's okay. These are police. <u>What</u> do you want?
I don't doubt it -- Oh, God.
My daughter was a virgin!
All he found were rodents. No signs of foul play. So there.
Under the house.
A sweet man.
That other policeman already checked under the house and found not a thing amiss.
Mrs. Lefferts, I just want to ask a few questions.
Let my Susie rest in peace!
At Christmas. We had fought. I didn't like her boyfriend. I -- she has a birthmark on her hip.
When was the last time you saw her, Mrs. Lefferts?
It seems like my Susan, but...
I put Reynolds in the cab myself. The night cost me a hundred scoots and I got bupkis.
Loew didn't go with him. You're sure?
Jesus. Jack, that's a story. 'Swish Actor Gets The Gay Blade.' Let me get my camera.
He's dead. I was just there. Somebody slit his throat.
You didn't get my message? It got called off. The kid chickened out at the last minute.
What happened with the kid and Loew?
What's wrong, Trash?
Give me some Narco skinny. I want to put out an all hop-head issue. Shvartze jazz musicians and movie stars. Maybe tie it into the Rosenbergs. You like?
Sid, cut the crap. I --
Jackie! You got some good scoop for the Sidster?
Jackie, all I know is what you know. The man is very rich. And he's invested in freeway construction so he's gonna get a lot richer. But that's it. Patchett's what I like to call 'Twilight.' He ain't queer, he ain't Red, he can't help me in my quest for prime sinuendo.
Where'd you hear that?
Sid, why would a guy like Pierce Patchett get involved with running dope and hookers?
He's queer too. Metro paid him two grand a week to fake it with ingenues. On screen and off. I'm getting him to fuck the D.A. for a hundred bucks. That's twice the fifty you got for wrecking his career.
How'd you like a little payback? Not to mention a donation to the widows and orphans fund. Did you know Loew was a swish?
Sure, he just tried to throw me off the force last Christmas as a little joke.
You tight with the D.A., trash?
What's he doing here, Sid?
The Grauman's Chinese pot bust. He just got off the honor farm.
Down around my ankles.
Sid, how are they hanging?
You're back, boychick.
No. No, I've heard bupkis. Jack, I'll talk to you later. Call me when you get something I can use. Smut's from hunger. For sad sacks who can't get their ashes hauled
What about Fleur-de-Lis? Their slogan's 'Whatever you desire.'
Not a word.
Don't know. I'm chasing picture books. Fuck shots, but the posers don't look like junkies. It's well done stuff. I thought you might have heard something.
No. But I've got something going with Ad Vice.
Jackie, are you back on Narco? I need copy.
Sid, it's Vincennes.
<u>Hush-Hush</u>. Off the record and on the Q.T.
Yeah, it's subtle.
It's Christmas morning in the City of Angels, and while decent citizens sleep the sleep of the righteous, hopheads prowl for marijuana, not knowing that a man is coming to stop them. The free- wheeling, big-time Big V, celebrity crime-stopper, Jack Vincennes, the scourge of grasshoppers and junk fiends everywhere. You like it, Jackie- Boy?
I like it! I like it!
Stand there with your camera. I'll stop here so you get Grauman's Chinese in the backgrouns.
They're sitting in the dark, goofing on the Christmas tree.
No. It's felony possession of marijuana.
Jack! It's Christmas!
I need an extra fifty. Two patrolmen at twenty apiece and a dime for the watch commander at Hollywood Station.
Contract players at Metro. You pinch 'em. I do you up feature in the next issue. Plus the usual fifty cash. Tell me, am I fucking Santa Claus?
You lost me, Sid. Who?
Beats me. Look, Jackie-Boy, a friend of mine just sold some reefer to Matt Reynolds. He's tripping the light fantastic with Tammy Jordan at 2245 Maravilla, Hollywood Hills. It's right around the corner.
We did a piece last year. 'Ingenue Dykes In Hollywood.' Her name got mentioned.
Karen, this is Sid Hudgeons from <u>Hush-Hush</u> magazine.
Big V Jack Vincennes! May I have this dance?
Please hold, Sergeant...
Yeah. Sergeant Jack Vincennes requesting. I need the home address on a Pierce Patchett.
No, Sergeant. I checked twice.
I just called it.
Please hold the line... No such number is assigned.
This is Sgt. Vincennes. Requesting a name and address on a phone number. Hollywood zero-one- two-three-nine.
Pacific Coast Bell.
It'll be our secret.
And no one'll know about this?
I'm pretty sure I can get you a part on the show... But tonight? Pretend it's an acting job, kid. Showbiz.
Yeah. Me neither.
You know, when I came out to L.A., this isn't exactly where I saw myself ending up.
Pierce isn't like regular people. I dig him, but he scares me too.
Yeah. Me and Patchett go way back.
Dope, liquor, hookers that look like movie stars. Pierce Patchett has it all.
Fleaur-de-Lis. 'Whatever you desire.'
Oh, I know. A Fleur-de-Lis party, right?
Something like that.
Was it a party?
Have we met before?
Maybe you should have thought of that before you made Bloody Christmas page one.
Working whores with squad two.
Oh? Anyplace else?
Yeah, Cap. Back in Narcotics.
Vincennes, is there someplace you'd rather be?
Gee. The Great Jerk-Off Book Caper of 1953.
Who are you calling?!
209 to anyone! I need some help here!
Maybe you bumped into someone who took it and you didn't even know.
Don't know. Did you check everywhere? Maybe it was hidden in something. Maybe there was someone else--
Nothing. Two nights later I was robbed. I'm pretty sure they were pros.
He didn't give you an address? He didn't give you a phone number?
I just gave him my card.
I'm telling you, I--
Don't bullshit me, I can save your life.
What'd he give to you?
What'd he say to you?
And you were the last one to talk to him.
<u>They</u> said he was behind an extortion scheme.
You said he was behind an extortion scheme.
I don't know anything about Zavitz.
They found him yesterday folded neatly in a car trunk. What about Zavitz?
It started with the information you gave me on DePinto. After we talked, he agreed to resign. Next, a phony detective asked me about Daniel Zavitz. Then an investigator questioned me about an extortion scheme they claimed Zavitz was behind. The FBI started looking into mob connections. A doctored picture in the paper. Overnight, I'm ruined. Wife. job, bank accounts, everything gone.
Brill's dead. He died of small pox when he was two and he was buried in a Kansas field. My name doesn't matter.
I don't want any money. And believe me, I have no interest in ruining your life. I'm not interested in this tape.
So...how much money do you want in exchange for not ruining my life?
Me neither, but the upshot is I've got color live-action footage of you and Ms Hawkins and it doesn't look good.
I don't know what that means.
It's actually DH-1 Digitech Pinpoint scanning with a frequency modulator.
Be careful, Danny.
I'll come straight there.
Come straight here. Don't talk to anyone.
I'm doing a transfer now.
When can you get it here?
No one. But I'm a little nervous.
Who else have you told?
Clear as day.
You've got it on tape?
Alright, I made a joke about squirrels, don't get so--
Goddammit, shut the fuck up and turn on CNN!
They keep taking the bird seed. I thought since you're the expert on--
Turn on CNN.
Lemme ask you something. I put a bird feeder out in the yard, but the squirrels, they keep taking--
Tired of chasing squirrels around the park?
Listen to me--
Zavitz, what? You want your old job back?
Well considering what a colossal douche bag you are, David, maybe I'd do best to simply kick your ass all over the capitol.
Considering the enormous exposure to which you've subjected this firm, I'd think you'd do best to simply answer my questions.
Told by whom?
I'm told you had an affair with Rachel Banks four years ago.
I don't know who he is.
Why don't you just call Brill directly.
I have a professional relationship with Rachel Banks. She's the go- between for a private investigator I use.
A direct one.
What kind of a question is that?
Tell us about Rachel Banks.
Except for the part about my setting up a company in Zurich and knowing anyone named Sam Vollotti and having any relationship whatsoever with the Gambino family.
They want to hold you in Contempt for ethics violations.
We've also been informed that the Grand Jury is going to call for an investigation into your affairs.
Not particularly, no.
He came in four minutes ago.
AmeriTech's data-base. There's Albert's D.C. office address and his phone's identity code. Now we just reprogram out phone with his ID code and you know what we've got?
What are you dialing?
I know my phone number and I know the number for SportsPhone. Beyond that--
What do you know about locking cellular phone signals?
We'll have to re-stock some basics.
How fast can you learn?
We're gonna lead Albert by the nose to one conclusion. And then when he's pissed as hell, we're gonna drop the tape in his lap. How fast can you teach me what I need to know?
No, I want the NSA to get caught spying on Albert.
You wanna get caught spying on Albert?
Same way they did with you and me. We take their biggest guy and turn him into one of us.
What if we just fucked with 'em?
What if <u>what</u>?
They've done it before. Takes maybe two minutes.
If they couldn't do that, they'd shut down the whole system, all the relays.
Nah, they'd shut down the pin number.
What if we transmitted it over cellular?
<u>I</u> know. <u>I</u> know what they're looking for and I'm telling you.
Well how do <u>I</u> know what they're--
The area's wired for surveillance, they'll be <u>looking</u> for those moves.
What if we hand deliver to their homes or office?
It'd never get through. All packages are screened, x-rayed and then hand-searched for explosives. You didn't like my "give-me-my- money" idea?
What if we do a mailing to Congressmen.
I was thinkin' about asking for my hundred and fifty grand and calling it quits.
So what do we do now?
What about newspapers and magazines?
Listen to you, "directly". You're not gonna get <u>near</u> the News Department. And if you did, it'd never get on the air. Time-Life buried the Zapruder film for 15 years.
We're honest people and we need your help. I'll give you two- hundred dollars if you--
No he won't.
Drive or I'll blow your fuckin' head off.
Tell him we're not gonna hurt him.
We're not gonna hurt you.
Tell me about it.
These guys are incredibly persistent.
Yeah, I can see where that'd--
Let's not do the tire thing anymore, okay?
That wasn't so hard.
We lost 'em.
Oh my God...
Think we let out enough air?
I didn't see a warrant. Did you see a warrant?
Those are Feds.
They shouldn't have come without calling first.
What the fuck?!
Empty 'em 'till they're almost flat. And turn your head. There might be some debris flying your way.
'Kay, well, could you walk faster, please.
In the warehouse. They're hiding in a duct on the third floor. When we go back inside, they're gonna kill us. When they notice that we're moving toward the car, they'll come running out of the building.
What's going on?
Well, actually, <u>you</u> have proof. Could you walk a little faster please.
Jesus. Do you have proof?
The NSA killed him.
Remember when Senator Hamersley died in an accident up near Shenandoah?
Yeah. Take a walk with me.
It really is. Did you find anything?
That is one ugly sunrise.
Welcome to Santa's Workshop.
Looks like Detroit.
What do you think?
Well...there'd be too much disclosure to prosecute me. So they ruined my records and made sure I'd never hold a real job again.
They come after you?
It was '72. I figured we had enough problems without monitoring a Berkeley kid's class schedule. So I sold my story to <u>Ramparts</u> and split.
Why'd you leave?
That was twenty years ago. With digital? They can suck a salt grain off a beach.
Meade has 18 underground acres of computers. They scan <u>every</u> phonecall for target words like "bomb" or "President". We red-flag phone numbers or voice prints...whatever we wanted. When the computers found something, it was bounced to comparative analysis.
How'd you have the manpower to--
They can tap anything as along as it's an airwave intercept. Cellulars and pagers your kid can do. Hard-line calls we'd pick off the relays as they were being fed into ground cables or fired up to the SATs. We'd suck in everything. All foreign, most domestic. Domestic was my group. Druggies, radicals, loud-mouths. Anyone we wanted.
How'd you get around the tap orders?
I intercepted phone calls.
I was a traffic analyst.
You used to work for 'em, didn't you?
None of your business.
How do you know so much?
The NSA's been in bed with the entire tele-communications industry since the 40's. They've infected everything: Banks, computers, phones, mail, name it. The more technology we buy into, the easier it is keeping tabs on us. It's a brave new world. At least it better be.
Oh, I'll bet <u>that</u> threw 'em off the scent. I sure hope you covered the mouthpiece with a handkerchief and used a funny voice!
I didn't use my name.
You don't get it. They go through your phone records. They fuckin' monitor everyone you called in the last--
I told you no calls.
You told me no calls.
What'd I tell you?
I called from a payphone!
What'd I tell you?
I didn't use my name.
What'd I tell you?
I called my wife!
Look, my wife is understandably--
I mean did you call anyone.
What do you mean?
Did you call anyone?
The price rises with the temperature and right now you're smokin'. But you're right, you should shop around and get the best price. I'll just let you out here.
We said a hundred.
I was worried about my hundred and twenty 'K'.
And you were worried about me. That's nice, I appreciate--
I taped it off the 11 o'clock news.
You could knock on the door, you know, and I'd open it.
Get dressed. We're leaving.
If you find something, chalk the Baltimore Sheraton mailbox and go to Temperanceville. It's South of Salisbury. And take this.
How many years have <u>you</u> been hiding from them? How many years have you been running? What'd they do to you?
They froze your accounts. Get outa my way.
I'll pay you.
And you won't. Now move--
What if I find out what they're after. You know these people, I don't.
Look, you gave me some work over the last year. We'll call it even.
Hey, if you live another week I'll be impressed.
What am I gonna do?! I mean, like, for the rest of my <u>life</u>?!
I don't know <u>anything</u>.
Exposure. They can't have it. They wanna learn what you know and then deal with it.
I don't know what that--
Why don't they just identify themselves and tell me what they want?
Pal, you're cooked. It's over. What you did, who you were...that's done. I'd find a quiet job somewhere shoveling snow.
Wait. What do I do?
If I knew, they'd be after <u>me</u>. Which they probably are right now. 'Bye.
Why are they after <u>me</u>?
It means the NSA can read the time off your wristwatch.
I don't know what that means.
230 Giga-Hertz. They use that band for the Aquacade Spy-SAT uplinks.
I don't know what that means.
Like a LowJack, but two generations ahead of what the police use. It pulses at 230 Giga-Hertz.
I don't know what that means.
It's a SAT-tracker.
What <u>is</u> that?
I clipped this from your wheel well just before they towed your car away.
You drive a black BMW, license plate SRK1339?
That's who they are.
What do they have to do with this?
You've heard of the National Security Agency?
Who are they?
One of many people who would live a word with you.
Who was that other guy?
You knew the deal. No contact.
My name's Neil. Maybe I can help you.
The thing is...it really can't wait.
Jerry's on vacation 'till Monday. I can give him the message when he gets back. That was Patrick and the last name--
It's Pat Cary. I work for Senator Sam Albert and I was given Jerry's name.
Is Jerry Delsano in?
Neil, thank you for your help.
With spy satellites. I don't like saying these things Senator...
Tracks your location to the inch and works directly with--you know...
Oh my God.
I yanked this off your RV. It's a Global Positioning Tracker.
Are you sure about this?
FBI, CIA, NSA, local cops.
Most of this stuff's only available to law enforcement.
What are you saying?
The thing is, Senator, and I don't want to get in the middle of nothing, but--
What do you mean? Who can buy this kind of equipment.
Ah, sir, you know, it's not for me to say.
Well then who can?
Well, sir, I'm afraid it's not as simple as that. Your average newspaper guy or Hard Copy lady or whatever, they can't buy this stuff.
A receiver tuned permanently to the Senator's phone.
--Don't think it could've gone any better. Tell me, how's Deb? How're my grandchildren?
You're a tough nut to crack, Dylan.
Oh, God, I <u>knew</u> it was stupid, I <u>knew</u> we'd get caught. But the Gameboy was just <u>sitting</u> there. Right on top of the bag. Yes. Yes. We took the GameBoy out of the bag, but with every intention of putting it back.
Dylan, I was just asking Eric if--
Hey, Mr. D., what's happenin'?
You got any money?
Is it okay?
Hello. Hello, Maria.
Hi, Mr. Dean.
Could you give me just a moment to talk to a friend of mine here? Not about this, but...Daniel?
For that matter, I think you will too.
Listen, Daniel, hang on one second.
I think she'll like this very much.
I'll be right back.
Eight. Size eight.
It's a little late for that.
I don't know anything about this. Well, I mean, I know a <u>little</u> about--from a certain perspective. My point is, I don't want to do anything foolish.
Is that good?
How 'bout Christian Dior?
Can you help me?
It's okay. I think it's a wonderful gift.
Yes. I have her permission.
You'd like to buy your wife some lingerie as a Christmas gift.
I'm married to my wife...of several years...and I'd like to buy...as a Christmas present...
Do you see anything you like?
Daniel's life is already ruined. Maybe if you guys stopped thinking about yourselves for a change and--
Because my life is being ruined.
Well, I need to find out as much about Daniel as possible.
<u>What's</u> your point.
That's my point.
<u>Wildlife</u> footage, for God's sake. I don't see how he could've slipped you something that the FBI would be interested in.
I know, but--
I don't know what's goin' on with Zavitz, but that was way, <u>way</u> outa line. You understand?
I thought maybe it might be for Rachel Banks.
<u>Yes</u>, for my wife, what the hell kinds of questions are these.
For your wife?
To buy lingerie.
Why'd you go to Harrison's?
Nobody gave you <u>anything</u>?
Not that I could see.
Was he with anyone?
Anything at all?
Did he give you anything?
I'm happy to help you all I can. But I didn't see the accident and I barely knew Daniel Zavitz. I've gotta go to work.
We'd appreciate your cooperation.
Somebody took my blender.
Why so edgy, Mr. Dean?
Than why don't you talk to the bus driver?
I'm just trying to determine if Mr. Zavitz was involved in something more than a simple bus accident.
Because I don't know.
Than why can't you tell me.
I'm not his attorney.
Are you invoking attorney/client privilege.
You tell me.
What kind of trouble.
Mr. Zavitz was in trouble.
I'm no expert, but I'm assuming that the impact of a moving bus against his body caused--
About the accident.
Someone said you spoke to Mr. Zavitz before he died. I thought you might know something.
I was <u>in</u> the store, the accident was outside. It was a bus.
You weren't at Harrison's Department Store the night before--
That's 'cause I <u>wasn't</u> there.
A police report.
Witnesses said you were there, but I notice you didn't file a report.
Oh...yeah, I didn't see the accident.
No, sir, I'm not involved with that. I'm doing a quick follow-up on a bus accident took place a few nights ago. Your name keeps coming up.
Hey, did you guys find my stuff?
I'm sorry. Detective Morelos.
Thanks. Who are you?
I didn't want to bother you during your racquetball game.
You did good.
A friend of mine. I don't know his real name. He's dead now.
Yeah. I wish you could've met...
I'm sorry about Rachel.
Albert's gonna get me my job back.
It's really over?
Is it over?
That's gonna end tonight.
They're saying you killed that policeman.
Are you sure you're safe?
What is it?
...who root through...uh...presents, and...
You're as bad as Eric. I've got an entire family of people who root through--
I was missing you.
That was for Christmas.
You opened the thing?
I opened the present you got me from Harrison's.
I'm sorry I didn't believe you.
Stacy...Stacy...maybe now isn't the best time for the I-Told-You-So speech.
I <u>told</u> you they could do this. I <u>told</u> you they had this kind of capability and that with this anti- terrorism it would be just another--
Does that hurt?
I was in a car chase and a small explosion. Now listen to me: The NSA is behind this. They think that guy I told you about, Daniel Zavitz, they think Zavitz gave me a tape or computer chip of some kind that could be damaging to them. So they're doing all these things <u>electronically</u>. The bank records, the surveillance. They're the ones who broke into the house. Now I know there's no reason to believe me. But I love you. And I love our son. So just believe me anyway. Please.
What happened to your head?
I don't think anybody wants the drapes, Stacy, I think the drapes are okay.
This is my house. Nobody's kicking me out of my house. I picked those drapes.
I wish you'd gone to your parents like I asked you.
Has anyone been by? Police? FBI?
Is Eric in school?
My father's put me in touch with an attorney. He'll be--
Stacy, somebody's trying to kill me. Now goddamit--
This is science-fiction Robert! The manager showed me the transfer notice with your signature on it.
It wasn't me.
I went to the bank to see why. They said you emptied our accounts--
I went to the grocery store. My ATM and credit cards didn't work. I couldn't buy food.
No, I was with her yesterday. I want you to take Eric and go to our parents house. I want you to do it right now.
Was that doctored-up, too?
I know, but listen--
I'm looking at a picture of you and Rachel taken <u>yesterday</u>.
Do you know what I'm looking at Robert?
Stacy, don't hang up.
Leave this house.
I think you should leave now, Robert.
It's not a real picture, Stacy, it's been doctored-up.
It's not real... That's not me.
The date stamp on the picture is last <u>month</u>. Is that where you and Rachel conduct business.
I didn't want you to be upset. I shouldn't have lied. Stacy, there's nothing between me and Rachel Banks.
You told me you weren't seeing her at <u>all</u>.
I see her for business.
You had an affair with this woman, Robert, we went to a fucking <u>counselor</u> for a year.
I told you I didn't want you seeing her.
I have lunch with Rachel once a month. She's my connection to an investigator.
"At the center of the investigation are well-known Washington-area attorneys Robert Dean and Rachel Banks."
I've seen it.
"Sources revealed an FBI investigation into a possible money laundering scheme that may have sent millions of dollars--
It's not true.
Stacy, I found out like this. This is the first I'm <u>hearing</u> of--
How could you let me find out like this?
There's just, clearly, some administrative snafu. I'm sure this is the worst of it.
He's got his priorities?
Well, you know--
I don't understand why Jerry couldn't clear this up.
Have you been working with Rachel?
Honey, I don't like to talk about this stuff in front of Eric.
Yeah, but you said you've never met him. How did you--
A guy named Brill. Same guy as always.
Who did you work with to get the--
What do you mean?
How'd you get the information on DePinto?
A toaster. And no terrorist talk at dinner. You're spookin' the kids.
What'd you buy at Harrison's?
The thing is, when I saw him, it seemed like he wanted to tell me... ...he was upset about something and he said... Doesn't matter now. I'm gonna wash up.
In front of Harrison's, he got hit by a bus. I knew him. The firm did some pro bono work for his organization a few years back.
What do you mean?
I saw a man die.
Something bad happened tonight.
You're a lawyer. Don't you care what's going on around you?
I think you're taking it seriously enough for both of us.
You should take this seriously.
We won't suspend the civil rights of the good people.
Just for the criminals.
So you tap everyone's phone? You use computers to probe financial records? New Search and Seizure laws?
Not a very good one, but--
Listen to him.
This guy's a fat-assed Rotarian gasbag.
Don't count on it.
I'm sure we can locate it for you, sir.
My suitcase is gone.
Here, you can use this.
Maybe it's not connected yet.
It's a brand new card.
I'm sorry, sir, this card's been declined.
Good news there, Mr. DePinto, you're talking to one.
I want to talk to a goddam lawyer.
That's probably not you in the picture. I tell you what, I'll just run the thing by the Grand Jury, see if they can't--
You're goddam right you jumped the gun.
You're right, Mr. DePinto, and maybe I jumped the gun.
This is fucked. You don't know <u>who's</u> in that--
That's not you having a whiskey sour with Carmine Morada.
You don't know who the fuck--
That ain't me.
I've got photographs of you at the Trenton Ramada looking very--
Why the hell would I--
I don't believe it is, no.
Is this a fuckin' joke?
Well, I was hoping you might stop by my office to swear out a criminal deposition against some of your friends and co-workers.
What can I do for you?
I'll see if I can, you know, work things out.
And then what?
My wife's Jewish. But that probably doesn't matter right now.
No, I meant I'm Presbyterian.
You didn't squeeze DePinto?
Actually, that's not true.
I'd like to speak to someone about what's happening to me.
I'm sorry. I'm not sure I understand. You wanna fuckin' <u>what</u>?
My guess is male, somewhere in his 40's or 50's.
Any idea what he looks like?
You're a moron, you know that?
It's not me?
What makes you think it's you?
I'm sorry about that.
I don't <u>have</u> a life, Bobby. I'm in love with a married man.
What're you gonna do, Rachel? You gonna sit in a bar in Baltimore? You want your job back? You want a life?
This conversation's over.
I <u>did</u> care how.
Fuck you. When you needed information, I got it. You didn't care how.
Goddammit, Rachel, you assured me--
I've never met him?
You have to.
Tell me about Brill.
I'm gonna fix it.
You don't work there anymore, Bobby.
My firm'll represent you. Free of charge.
For the last four years.
You being audited?
The IRS contacted me this morning. They say my lifestyle and receipts exceed my income.
Will you hang on just a second.
I gotta go.
Who's doing this?
It's really not a good idea for me to be seen with you.
You got a minute?
Good. You're just what I need right now.
All right, look--
There are reporters wanting to know about my relationship with you and how long I've worked for the mob. The <u>mob</u>, Bobby!
I got a call from my firm this morning saying don't come in.
Mr. DePinto? My name's Robert Dean. I'm an attorney with Seth, Silverberg.
Eat your fish.
I wouldn't let you. Good luck with DePinto.
How can I be sure.
I just want to make sure I'm not breaking the law.
He doesn't work that way.
I <u>like</u> our history. And I like you. I'd probably like <u>Brill</u> if I ever got to--
Someone with whom you don't have quite so personal a--
Why would I--
Other than me.
Other than Brill.
I take a straight 15 percent. Brill's fee varies with risk. Perhaps you'd be more comfortable using someone else.
Ten thousand cash. I don't know if it's Brill's prices going up or your commission.
So you've said.
It's how he works.
"Soon". Or at least sooner than never.
What answer were you--
That wasn't the answer I was hoping for.
When do I get to meet him?
Here's what you asked for. Brill's note said it was everything you'd need to, shall we say, coax DePinto--
Not that much.
Do you like fish?
I mean it tastes like every other fish I've ever had. Every fish tastes the same.
It is fish.
It tastes like fish.
How's the trout?
Fuck you. You may have to--
We'd rather not--
Otherwise you may have to what?
--otherwise we may have to--
He didn't <u>give</u> me--
Fuck you. You may have to what?
We'd rather not--
Otherwise you may have to what?
--otherwise we may have to--
He didn't <u>give</u> me--
We'd like to recover any materials Mr. Zavitz may have given you--
If he passed me materials, I'd have them. I don't.
We have good reason to believe that he passed you--
We believe he did.
Mr. Zavitz was involved in an extortion scheme. We believe he passed you sensitive materials, possibly with your knowledge, and we need to--
I went through this with an investigator this morning. If I could--
I'm an investigator with Pro-Tech Security.
Who <u>are</u> you people?
We'd like to ask you some questions about Daniel Zavitz.
I don't <u>know</u> you, I don't <u>know</u> your name, I don't know <u>what</u> the hell you did for me except hang up on my wife and slam me into a wall, but I'm getting pretty fuckin' <u>sick</u> of this! Get it?!
Forget me, forget what I did for you. Don't <u>ever</u> mention my name or try to contact me again. Get it?
Gimme the shoe.
Shut the fuck up.
Jesus! What?! You want money?!
Put David on it. He seems anxious to clear my name.
A leave of absence. Until we've sorted this all out.
You're firing me.
Well until we find, you're gonna have to take a leave of absence.
Maybe Bellmoth. Maybe the unions. I don't know.
Who would do that?
This is <u>bullshit</u>. Someone's mixing up a bunch of half-truths to ruin me and to ruin my case.
What's his name?
Gimme a week and four guys from litigation and I'll have the Post pleading with us not to sue for libel.
Oh, well, that's true.
They claim you helped create a shell company for Sam Vollotti in Zurich and that through your continuing relationship, the Gambino family's been able to exert influence and provide false witnesses to discredit our case.
I don't under--
I got a call this morning from a source I trust. The Post is running a lead this afternoon about your involvement in the Bellmoth investigation.
Merry Christmas, son.
Diane, maybe you didn't hear Mr. Silverberg. They've got models that'll try on the garments. Thank you, sir.
I have to go lingerie shopping.
And may I ask what could possibly be more important than Fawell Oil v. U.S. Environmental Agency?
God knows I would, sir, but I have a previous engagement this evening.
My name's Bobby. I'm your lawyer. Don't do anything 'till I talk to you.
Because they've been paid off by Bellmoth.
Why would the Union--
The Union's trying to railroad you into accepting terms worse than what you have now.
I don't under--
That's because your Union bosses <u>are</u> those Guido mother-fuckers.
I'm sorry, Mr. Dean. But Larry's in St. Lukes now, so I'm a little--I'm not myself. The Union bosses say unless we take Bellmoth's offer, it'll only get worse.
L.T., in this office I'd prefer you say Italian-Americans.
Last night, Larry Spinks, he works the Steel Press, he goes to a bar with his wife Rosalie to have a glass of chianti 'cause it's his birthday, and these two guys, these Guido mother-fuckers, they jump him when he goes to the bathroom.
Well that's why I'm here, Mr. Dean. 'Cause you're a labor lawyer.
Because she's reading the newspaper, you asshole.
She can't talk to you right now.
What are you talking--
She doesn't want to talk to you.
No "900" numbers.
It's okay to use the phone.
I'm not goin' anywhere, Eric. I live here.
How long can you stay?
Did you take <u>anything</u>--anything at all--out of those Christmas bags I brought home last week.
Men don't win fights with women, son, I'll tell you about that sometime, too. In the meantime, I've got a question for you, and it's incredibly important that you tell me the truth. Under no circumstances will I be angry with you. This is a total Get-Out-Of- Jail-Free card. Ready?
Who won the fight?
No. We're never getting a divorce. We were having a fight. It happens sometimes.
Are you and mom getting a divorce?
Having an adventure. I can't tell you about it right now, but I'll tell you about it soon.
Where've you been?
Do I know you?
She's in the kitchen.
You staying for dinner?
In your dreams.
Sure, go ahead.
Can I open 'em up?
Some of 'em.
Are those my Christmas presents?
You're learning a cruel lesson.
Excuse me, have any of you seen an eight year old boy, good looking, about yea-big.
Go fuck yourself.
Turn yourself in.
Bobby? Piece of advice?
No. No, it's okay.
I'm sorry, man.
So do I!
I have a family.
Go to 'em, Jerry.
Bobby, you're in way over your head.
To the NSA. Make a deal. Tell 'em to stop. Tell 'em I don't have what they're after. Make a deal.
To the cops?
I won't <u>make</u> it to the police. They won't let me get there. You go.
You gotta let me bring you in to the police.
No, listen to me. You gotta let me bring you in.
Listen to me.
I don't know!
Why would the NSA--
I don't know. I mean--
Why would they--
They're framing me.
My stuff's all over her apartment.
They killed Rachel.
The NSA's doing this 'cause they think I have something. And they killed--
It's the NSA. They're the ones doing this.
Just be cool.
I'm a labor lawyer. There are <u>always</u> mob ties.
Your Bellmoth case. The FBI thinks there might be mob ties.
He's heard that it's escalated.
An investigation? It was a bus accident.
The Congressman's very happy to have your support, but he's heard that there's an investigation.
I wrote a check for a thousand dollars. You guys didn't have a table that was in the kitchen?
That's what I want to talk to you about?
Can I talk to you a second?
Serve the ball.
They only took electrical appliances.
Sounds like they didn't want anything that wasn't electric?
No, but they took my blender.
They didn't take the silverware?
I love my blender.
They didn't take the jewelry. They took the computers. They took the big-screen TV, they took my blender.
What about jewelry?
Why don't you give 'em a call.
Usually they take clothes.
You've got a bunch of Armani suits, they didn't take 'em?
Did they take your clothes?
They took the espresso machine. The <i>espresso</i> machine, Jerry! Which makes sense, you know, because the crooks probably wanted to make themselves a latte before fencing the stereo.
Yeah, what's going on?
Are you still in Crystal City?
Are you okay?
How can I reach you?
Tell me about it.
I need help.
I'm just doing some Christmas shopping. It's for my wife, no kidding. Though, this isn't the <i>main</i> present, it's just, you know, a little--
It's been a few years.
It's me, Robert Dean. From Seth, Silverberg. I worked on--
Jesus! I just told you. I don't know.
You think there was a connection to--
I don't know.
Was Zavitz in trouble?
I honestly don't know.
What does that have to do with you?
He got hit by a bus.
You remember Daniel Zavitz?
No. He said they were doing a credit check. Are you refinancing a loan?
Dick Burns got a phone call this morning from someone wanting information on you.
Because we, and our associates, have paid out hundreds of thousands of dollars to shyster lawyers like you, <u>because</u> of shyster lawyers like you, and we'd just as soon sit back and sip a beer while you get ass-banged by as many people as possible.
Yes. But we can't.
Well we'd sure like to help you.
Someone's trying to destroy my life, and I'd like to find out who.
What is it you want?
Zavitz had digital compression equipment. He could've downloaded into something. A disk, a chip, anything small enough to put in his pocket and run with. Whatever he put it in, he dropped it in that bag.
Then what's your goddam opinion?
I'm not asking you to say for certain. This is what you're trained to do, right?
It's hard to say for certain, these things are--
What's your opinion?
We're not gonna hand you and your band of lunatics the keys to the kingdom. I'm not gonna sit in Congress and write a law that allows the NSA to point a camera and a microphone at anything they damn well feel like. And the next time you have something to say to me, we do it above-board, in my office, like everyone else. Now get outa my car, I've got a committee meeting on the hill.
There are planes falling out of the sky, buildings blowing up. <i>American</i> buildings. <i>Americans</i> getting bombs in the mail. What are we gonna do!?
You're gonna finger me as soft on terrorism? <i>Terrorism,</i> you unconscionable asshole?
Is that anyway to talk to an old school chum?
I said fuck you.
It's a bi-partisan issue. Everyone needs to swallow hard. No one, including you, wants to be fingered as the one obstructing efforts to crack down on terrorism, and--
You didn't ask me to meet you 30 miles from my office for a Bible study class.
It means who's side are you on?
What the hell does it mean?
"I know thy works and thy labour and how thou canst not bear them that are evil. And thou hast tried them who say they are apostles and hast found them to be liars". Revelations II.
He walked right up to me in church. At the holiest time of the wear. He approached me in a sanctified place. Kill him now.
Three minutes. We're going in light. Myself and two others. Everyone else is held back in reserve.
What's your ETA?
Not yet. He's near "M" and 34th. I've got an ELSUR unit on the scene now. A residential building. Twelve units.
Do you have visual?
Found him. Kent Island nailed the call five minutes ago. He's stationary.
And if it wasn't?
We think it was on Brill. If it was, it's destroyed now.
What about the tape?
Jones had to flee the scene before we could locate the second body.
We don't know.
Resources, that's a good point. He's got resources. All we've got is a <i>six-hundred billion dollar</i> <i>organization!</i> Now god<u>dammit</u>, Hicks, you find 'em. You find 'em and you end it now!
If he's with Lyle it means he's got resources.
Oh, let's assume that they have.
If they've looked at the video.
So they know everything.
And they have the video. That's confirmed.
Dean's with Lyle.
You're kidding me.
Well...his real name's Edward Lyle.
We found two sets of latent prints in the rubble of Brill's studio. One was Dean's. The other, we believe, belongs to Brill.
I don't care if he's Solomon with Saint Joseph sitting in his <u>lap</u>. I want the tape and I want him. Now is--
I just meant--
No, no, I'm sorry. I didn't realize you were hoping to be transferred to a weathership outside Greenland.
He's clever? He had help? Oh.
He's clever. He had help.
I sit on top of the greatest intelligence gathering organization in human history. Why can't I bring in a man whose name <i>is in the</i> <i><u>fucking</i></u> <i><u>phonebook</i></u>?!
Help from whom? Christ.
He had help.
30 minutes ago you said we had him. What in hell's goin' on out there?
Destroy his credibility before he goes public. Neutralize him. I don't want anyone listening to a word he has to say. Tell me about Rachel Banks.
It was in his bag. Now it's not.
He's arrogant and threatening. Voice stress points suggest he's worrying.
We'd have to--
Contact COINTEL. Profile. Assess the threat. Then cross-check against Zavitz. Red-flag the intersects and anything we can exploit. Also NRO. Pull up the keyhole tapes. I need to own him. I need to own him <u>now</u>.
Several indiscriminates and one primary who we've ID'd as Robert Dean. A Crystal City attorney. Mr. Reynolds? Sir?
He never made it to the newspaper, but there was private sector contact.
Am I to understand--
There was a transfer.
We found the originals.
What about the tapes?
He's dead. An accident. Hit by a bus.
The door was open, sir. I just need a signature.
How'd you get in the building?
For Daniel Zavitz. I just need a signature.
Federal Express for 'Zavitz'.
I don't know what's going on, but if you people have tripped over your own asshole again, you're not gonna get any help from us. It's ending at your doorstep.
It was pulsing on your SAT frequencies.
He's carrying the damn <u>flag</u>.
You have any idea what kind of position this--
This guy's carrying the <u>flag</u> for the damn terrorism bill. You think this is the best time to piss him off?
The fuck do you have goin' on with Sam Albert?
We're not stupid, Reynolds.
Now is that clear?
Then let's assume I don't.
Do I look like I want a tiny pizza?
I also have tiny pizzas and mushrooms stuffed with--
No thank you.
Our Garden, our garden - not so much the garden, but the copse alongside it, wild, a secret way plunging down to the shore and then nothing but water between you and France. The Devil's Chimney it was called - The Devil's Chimney, I don't know why. Darling. My darling.
Tell me about your garden.
Every night I cut out my heart but in the morning it was full again.
I'm sorry, Katharine.
Thank you. Will you bury Geoffrey? I know he's dead.
And a good read. Don't waste it.
I promise I'll come back. I promise I'll never leave you. And there's plenty of water and food. You can have a party.
Do you promise? I wouldn't want to die here. I wouldn't want to die in the desert. I've always had a rather elaborate funeral in mind, with particular hymns. Very English. And I know exactly where I want to be buried. In our garden. Where I grew up. With a view of the sea. So promise me you'll come back for you.
Listen to me, Katharine. You've broken your ankle and I'm going to have to try and bind it. I think your wrist might be broken, too - and some ribs, which is why it's hurting you to breathe. I'm going to have to walk to El Taj. Given all the traffic in the desert these days I should bump into one army or another before I reach there - or Fenelon-Barnes and his camel. And then I'll be back and we'll be fine, and I'll never leave you.
Shall we be all right?
I'm just going to find things for the fire.
Don't leave me!
I know. I'm sorry. I'll make a fire. I'll be back.
It's so cold.
Of course. You idiot. I always wear it. I've always worn it. I've always loved you.
You're wearing the thimble.
You speak so many bloody languages and you never want to talk.
Don't you know you drove everybody mad?
Why did you hate me?
I know, darling, I'm sorry.
It hurts too much.
We've got to get you out of here.
Please don't move me. It hurts too much.
A surprise, he said.
Why did he bring you?
I can't move. I can't get out.
Katharine! Oh dear God, Katharine - what are you doing here?
Do you think you're the only one who feels anything? Is that what you think?
Dance with me. I want to touch you. I want the things which are mine. Which belong to me.
Dance with me.
You know why? He tries to hold her. She resists
I've watched you - on verandahs, at Garden Parties, at the Races - how can you stand there? How can you ever smile? As if your life hadn't capsized?
Don't do this.
Is he next? Do you drag him into your little room? Where is it? Is this it?
Would you let me pass?
What? What? That boy, that little boy, you were holding his collar, gripping his collar, what for?
Why did you hold his collar?
You will. You will.
I just wanted you to know. I'm not missing you yet. She nods, can't find this funny.
Don't go over it again, please.
I just know - any minute he'll find out, we'll barge into somebody we'll - and it will ill him.
I'm not agreeing. Don't think I'm agreeing, because I'm not.
I'd better get back. Say goodbye here.
Yes. Yes. Absolutely.
Shall we be all right?
Of course. You didn't need to slap my face to make me feel as if you'd slapped my face.
That day, had you followed me to the market?
I don't care to bargain. It's full of saffron, just in case you think I'm giving it to you to encourage your sewing.
Yes. A different wife.
This is a different world - is what I tell myself. A different life. And here I am a different wife.
Madox knows, I think. He's tried to warn me. He keeps talking about Anna Karenina. I think it's his idea of a man-to-man chat. Its my idea of a man-to-man chat.
I thought we were against ownership? I can stay tonight.
This - what's it called? - this place, I love it - this is mine! I'm asking the King permission to call it the Almasy Bosphorous.
You bastard, I was believing you!
Ouch! See - you're always beating me..!
It's a long song - Szerelem means loveand the story - there's a Hungarian Count, he's a wanderer, a fool. For years he's on some kind of quest, who knows what? And then one day he falls under the spell of a mysterious English woman - a harpy - who beats him and hits him and he becomes her slave. He sews her clothes, he worships the hem of -
It's beautiful. What's it about?
No, no, it's Hungarian. My daijka sang it to me.
It's a folk song.
This is - what is this?
I'm trying to write with your taste in my mouth. Swoon. I'll catch you.
This is empty, just coming!
I can still taste you.
I can't work. I can't sleep. Lady Hampton calls impatiently.
Say you're feeling faint - the sun.
Say you're sick.
Ownership. Being owned. When you leave, you should forget me.
A lie. What do you hate most?
What do you hate most?
Marmite - addicted! Baths - not with other people! Islands. Your handwriting. I could go on all day. My husband. Almsy nods.
What do I love? I love rice pudding, and water, the fish in it, hedgehogs! The gardens at our house in Freshwater - all my secret paths.
Okay. And what do you love? Say everything.
When were you least happy?
When were you most happy?
That makes it harder still.
A woman should never learn to sew, and if she can she should never admit to it. Close your eyes.
You don't sew at all!
You sew very badly.
I'm impressed you can sew.
I believe you still have my book.
Mrs. Clifton - Katharine turns, disgusted.
Will you please come in?
Will you not come in?
No, but I think I do.
Do they know them?
No, the marriage isn't a fiction.
And the marriage - is that a fiction?
Geoffrey's not in Cairo. He's not actually a buffoon. And the plane wasn't a wedding present. It belongs to the British Government. They want aerial maps of the whole North Africa. So I think he's in Ethiopia. In case you were counting on his sudden appearance.
Find that plant. Cut out its heart.
Water? Yes, we have water, we have a little in our can, we have water in the radiator which can be drunk. Not at all cowardly, extremely practical. Come on, come on! There's also a plant - I've never seen it but I'm told you can cut a piece the size of a heart from this plant and the next day it will be filled with a delicious liquid.
Of course. Is it, am I a terrible coward to ask how much water we have?
Could I ask you, please, to paste you paintings into my book? I should like to have them. I should be honored.
Oh my God, the others!
Madox will have calculated how many miles, they'll soon turn around.
All true. Herodotus, your friend, tells of a wind - the Simoon - so evil that a nation declared war on it and marched out to fight it in full battle dress, their swords raised.
Fiction. We had a house on that coast and it never rained blood. Go on. More.
- there is the Harmattan, a red wind. Which Mariners called the sea of darkness. Red sand from this wind has flown as far as the south coast of England, producing showers so dense they were mistaken for blood. Almasy checks to see if Katharine is still awake.
Yes is a comfort. Absolutely is not.
Shall we be all right?
This is not very good, is it?
In an hour there will be no stars. The air is filling with sand.
They're so untidy. I'm just trying to rearrange them.
See what's happening to them - the stars.
What am I looking at?
Look over there.
I'm quite all right, thank you.
You should come into the shelter.
And that would be unconscionable, I suppose, to feel any obligation? Yes. Of course it would.
There's really no need. This is just a scrapbook. I should feel obliged. Thank you.
I'd like you to have them.
We took several photographs, there's no need.
I thought you might paste them into your book.
Ask Al Auf. Almsy asks Al Auf in Arabic.
I do not.
You sing. All the time.
Actually, you sing.
Her or me?
Be careful? You mean you - or me? Who?
He said - be careful.
What is he saying? Come on, what did he say?
The Ostrich is a detour. A poor man hunts an ostrich, it's the method. Nothing to do with Zerzura. To catch an ostrich you must appear not to move. The man finds a place where the ostrich feeds, a wadi, and stands where the ostrich can see him, on the horizon, and doesn't move, doesn't eat - otherwise the ostrich will run. At nightfall, he moves, fifty, sixty yards. When the ostrich comes the next day, the man is there, but he's nearer. Haunting the ostrich.
Sounds perfectly clear. Where does the Ostrich come in?
A mountain curved like a woman's back, a plateau the shape of an ear.
What do you mean, poetry?
This is an incredible story - about a man hunting an Ostrich, he's been telling me about Zerzura, he thinks he's been there, but his map, the route he's describing, he couldn't survive the journey now, but he's a poet, so his map is poetry - and now we're onto an Ostrich. I'm telling her your map is poetry. The Arab shrugs.
So why follow me? Escort me, by all means. Following me is predatory, isn't it?
As the wife of one of our party.
You felt obliged to.
I was concerned. As I said, women in that part of Cairo, a European women, I felt obliged to.
After the market, you followed me to the hotel.
Why did you follow me yesterday?
I should be very happy to obtain the correct price for this. I apologize if I appear abrupt. I am rusty at social graces. How do you find Cairo? Did you visit the Pyramids?
I don't believe that. I think you are insulted by me, somehow. You're a foreigner too, aren't you, here, in this market?
That insults them.
I don't care to bargain.
This is not worth eight pounds, Mrs. Clifton.
I don't want to go back.
You've been cheated, don't worry, we'll take it back.
Seven pounds, eight, I suppose. Why?
They don't see foreign women in this market. How much did you pay?
Hello! Good morning.
How much did you pay?
Yes, thank you, Gyges, son of Daskylus - Candaules said to him I don't think you believe me when I tell you how beautiful my wife is. And although Gyges replied he did find the Queen magnificent the King insisted he would find some way to prove beyond dispute that she was fairest of all women. Do you all know this story?
I'm sorry - what have you noticed?
I can't sing. but I can tell a story. I might need a prompt. Do you have your Herodotus? I've noticed you carry it
What kind of fossils?
Isn't Zerzura supposed to be protected by spirits who take on the shape of sandstorms?
A thing is still a thing no matter what you place in front of it. Big car, slow car, chauffeur-driven car, still a car.
I wanted to meet a man who could write such a long paper with so few adjectives.
And the people here don't want us. Are you kidding? The Egyptians are desperate to get rid of the Colonials - isn't that right? Their best people get down on hands and knees begging to be spared a knighthood. Isn't that right?
Sorry, what's your point?
Oops! Mustn't say International. Dirty word. Filthy word. His Majesty! Die Fhrer! Il Duce.
I haven't, no. Sorry.
It's Geoffrey under this.
Have you seen Katharine?
Why are you people so threatened by a woman?!
I've known Katharine since she was three, my aunt is her aunt, we were practically brother and sister before we were man and wife. I think I'd know what is and what isn't too much for her. I think she's know herself.
All the same, I, were I you I would be concerned -
Are you mad? Katharine loves it here. She told me yesterday.
I think the desert is, it's - for a woman - it's very tough, I wonder if it's not too much for her.
Clifton - your wife - do you think it's appropriate to leave her?
You too. Good luck!
Portraits. The Brigadier, the Brigadier's wife, the Brigadier's dogs, the Brigadier at the Pyramids, the Brigadier breathing.
What kind of photographs?
There you have me.
Uxoriousness - that's my favorite kind of love. Excessive love of one's wife.
Still a car.
A broken car?
No! NO! Don't radio anybody, just give me the fucking jeep!
I understand you are agitated - perhaps you would like to sit down while I radio back to HQ -
Look, listen to me. A woman is dying - my wife! - is dying seventy miles from here. I have been walking for three days! I don't want to spell my name, I want you to give me this jeep!
Almsy - would you mind just spelling that for me? What nationality would that be?
Count Laszlo de Almsy. The Officer is writing this down. A glance at his Corporal.
Right. And what's your name, sir?
Am I not talking sense? - forgive me, I'm, I've been walking, I've - there's a woman badly injured at Gilf Kebir, in the Cave of Swimmers. I am a member of the Royal Geographical Society.
If I could just see some identification.
Do you have your papers, sir?
No, I'm not thinking clearly - I need a doctor too, to come with me, can I take this vehicle? I'll pay, of course - and some morphine and Seventy miles - I can be back here by dusk.
I desperately need a jeep. There's been an accident.
Yes, of course. So, golly, where have you come from?
Could I trouble you for some water?
There is no God. But I hope someone looks after you.
May God make safety your companion.
Goodbye, my friend. They shake hands.
I have to teach myself not to read too much into everything. Comes of too long having to read so much into hardly anything at all.
I'll leave the plane in the hangar at Kufra Oasis. So if you need ithard to know how long one's talking about. We might all be back in a month or two.
Tomorrow afternoon. Don't worry. I'll be ready.
When's Clifton picking you up?
Yes. It was. Thanks for the compass. I'll look after it for you.
We didn't care about countries. Did we? Brits, Arabs, Hungarians, Germans. None of that mattered, did it? It was something finer than that.
I told you so.
Bermann thinks he'll be interned, poor fellow. I'm going to do what I can, but And D'Ag turns out to be a great admirer of Mussolini. So now you can say I told you so.
Had a letter from my wife. The wisteria is still out, which I'm looking forward to. She says Dorset is gripped with Invasion Fever. Wrong coast I should have thought, still
Absolutely right, shut up. Lashings of apologies all round.
Look, either shut up, or go home.
Good, we're all here? A toast, to the International Sand club - may it soon resurface.
I believe I'm rather late.
Own the desert.
What do we find in the desert? Arrow heads, spears. In a war, if you own the desert, you own North Africa.
Why do they care about our maps?
Don't be so bloody nave. You know there's a war breaking out. This arrived this morning. By order of the British Government - all International Expeditions to be aborted by May 1939.
What's the matter with you?
Those maps belong to His Majesty's Government. They're confidential. They shouldn't be left lying around for any Tom, Dick or Mary to have sight of.
In my room.
And where are the Expedition Maps?
Which we couldn't explore because of rocks, because of cross-winds, it's sloppy. And here - and here - we could be staring at Zerzura.
Which we've overflown twice.
No, because you can't see from the air! If you could explore from the air life would be very simple! Look! What is that? Is that a wadi? That whole spur is a real possibility
And I'm telling you there's nothing there to explore.
Try to get a second radiator, we'll bury it between here and the Pottery Hill. And a better jack. We planned badly.
I'll be back as quick as I can. Thirty-six hours at the outside.
Cut the ropes. I left a note, on his blanket. At the next Geographical Society I shall await with great interest the announcement of the Fenelon-Barnes Slave Knot. The Girl wouldn't leave, of course. Her father had sold her for a camel. He turns over the propeller, the engine cranks up.
I was talking about the girl.
I looked at them. They're shrubs, small trees. Exquisite. And fossilized, rock hard. He walks away to the nose of the plane.
What did you do?
Her hands and feet were tied.
You shouldn't go into another man's tent. It's inexcusable.
Looking for the fossils. Why should we wait until we're in London? This girl was probably twelve years old.
What did you think you were doing in his tent?
That's your name innit? Count Fucking Arsehole Von Bismarck? What's that supposed to be then, Irish?
Fritz? What are you talking about? Who's Fritz?
Listen, Fritz, if I have to listen to another word from you I'll give you a fucking good hiding.
Please - I beg you, I beg you, I beg you, please listen to me, this is a terrible mistake. Just stop, please, and listen to me. My wife is dying.
Hey! Hey! Stop this jeep! Let me out of here - there's a woman dying, there's a woman dying while I'm - Hey!
Would it? She kisses him, very softly, on the lips.
Just kiss me. It would mean such a lot to me.
No, I'll get you some tea. Wait till you're in Naples. You'll find a girl there.
You're the prettiest girl I ever saw.
Your leg will be fine. A lot of shrapnel came out - I saved you the pieces.
How are you?
Oh Jesus. Oh Jesus Christ.
Go! Hey! Go! Caravaggio is in terror.
Don't cut me. Come on.
Or was it Toronto?
Don't cut me.
Well, you must know. You were brought up Libya, yes?
I slept with the girl. I've got a wife in Tripoli. A girl comes up and points at you, you only see trouble.
Why is there so much nose? I can't hear myself think! Look - give me something. So we can all get out of this room. A name. A code. It's too hot.
A nurse? Well, sure, a nurse is great. A nurse? Great.
We don't have a doctor, but we do have a nurse.
Yes, I've been asking for weeks, a month, I don't know, also my leg was -
You are a Canadian spy working for the Allies. Code-name Moose.
It's impossible. I was buying or selling something. I've been to Cairo many times.
It is you. This was taken in Cairo at British Headquarters - July 41. And so was this - August 41. And this -February 42.
I don't know.
Is this you?
I keep explaining. You've got the wrong man. My name is Bellini - Antonio Bellini. Bellini, Caravaggio, both painters, I think that is confusing you.
Petty thief, six months imprisonment Kingston Penitentiary, 1937.
I can get in the back.
She can take you as far as Florence.
What's happened? Kip! What's happening? Don't shoot, please, don't shoot anybody.
Well, then ask him his name!
No-one should own music. The real question is who wrote the song?
I think that's called looting.
I liberated it.
Where did you find that?
Please don't creep around this house.
Ask him. Ask your saint who he is. Ask him who he's killed.
I don't know what that means.
I'm one of his ghosts and he wouldn't even know. It's like he slammed a door in Cairo and it trapped my fucking hands in Tobruk.
What? How could he have? When?
What if I told you he did this to me?
Who are his ghosts?
I'm not in love with him. I'm in love with ghosts. And so is he. He's in love with ghosts.
You have to protect yourself from sadness. This is the thing I've learned. You're in love with him, aren't you? Your patient. Do you think he's a saint or something? Because of the way he looks? I don't think he is.
I'll have some of your water. It's hot.
Don't touch me if you're going to try and fuck me.
Hana? Hana? Are you alright?
Some gave me a dress. You know what's great? What I'm learning? You win a war and you not only gain the miles you get the moral ground. Everywhere I go, we're in the right. I like that.
What do you do? What are you doing here?
You should be happy. What were you going to do for him when it ran out? He pulls out more phials from his jacket.
It's a week. We didn't know where you were - or if you coming back, or -
Can you cook the rabbit or will you try and bring that back to life?
I could help you. I could get you off that.
Where've you been?
Supper. Hana calls after him.
Fine. I'm not looking.
Because we're fine here. I don't know what Mary told you about me, but I don't need company, I don't need to be looked at.
I'm okay. Look, it's a big house. We needn't disturb each other. I can shoot a pistol! I'll sleep in the stables. I don't care where I sleep. I don't sleep.
If you said yes I would have had a reason. You should let me redress those bandages. Before you go.
So you can shoot a pistol?
I'd like to stay. That's the long and short of it. I mean, you know blah-blah if it's convenient, if there's room blah-blah-blah. I have to do some work here -I speak the language. There are Partisans to be - -we embrace them and see if we can relieve them of their weapons, you know - while we hug. I was a thief, so they think I'd be good at that.
So was my Patient.
Yeah, for a while.
You were in Africa?
They're fresh. I haven't eaten an egg inhave you noticed there are chickens? You get chickens in Italy but no eggs. In Africa there were always eggs, but never chickens. Who separates them?
I met your friend Mary. She said I should stop and see if you were okay. Apparently we're neighbors - my house is two blocks from yours in Montreal. Cabot, north of Laurier. Bonjour.
What do you want?
Are you Hana?
Buon' Giorno! Hana turns, startled and suspicious.
No, now I can't kill you.
You can't kill me. I died years ago.
You get to the morning and the poison leaks away, doesn't it? Black nights, fucking black nights, when you want to howl like a dog. I thought I would kill you. You killed my friends, you ruined my hands. But the girl was always here, like some Guardian Angel.
Yes, I got back there finally to keep my promise. To come back for her. And then of course I couldn't I couldn't even do that properly.
And did you never see Katharine? You never got back to the Cave?
Is that what you thought? That I betrayed the British? The British betrayed me. The British betrayed me.
But you were among the British, they were your friends - why betray them?
Thousands of people did die, just different people.
There was a result to what you did. It wasn't just another expedition. It did this. If the British hadn't unearthed your nosey photographer in Cairo thousands of people could have died.
The rest meant nothing to me.
What did you say?
I had to get back to the desert. I made a promise. The rest meant nothing to me.
You were the only man who knew the desert well enough, the only man who would cross seventeen hundred miles of nothing.
And you thought you'd come and settle the score?
Before you went over to the Germans, before you got Rommel's spy across the desert and inside British headquarters. He took some pretty good photographs - I saw mine in that torture room in Tobruk, so they made an impression.
I'd seen you writing in that book. At the Embassy in Cairo, when I had thumbs and you had a face. And a name.
So, I come across the Hospital Convoy I was looking for this stuff, and some nurse, Mary, Hana's friend, tells me about you and Hana, hiding in a monastery, in purdah, whatever it is - retreat - how you'd come in from the Desert and you were burned and you didn't know your name but you knew the words to every song there was and you had one possession - - a copy of Herodotus - and it was full of letters and cuttings, and then I knew it must be you.
We shall miss you.
There are going to be trials, they want me to interpret, don't they know I'm allergic to courtrooms?
Hana tells me you're leaving.
What? You and Madox? Or you and Katharine Clifton?
Well, anything you do is likely to be fatal, so you know -
I've had a drink. Fatal.
Have a drink.
Is there a song you don't know?
What? Hana comes in, sleepily, frowns at the gramophone.
Thought you'd never wake up!
I don't know. Paper. Is it? Paper? I don't remember.
First wedding anniversary - what do you call it?
Is it you? If I said Moose I look different, fuck, why shouldn't you?
I don't even know if it is my book. The Bedouin found it in the plane, in the wreckage. It's mine now. I heard your breathing and thought it might be rain. I'm dying for rain - of course I'm dying anyway - but I long to feel rain on my face.
Why do I feel if I had your book I would know everything?
I can't hide anymore. I breathe like a dog. I lose my balance. Stealing's got harder. Caravaggio stares at the Herodotus.
Are you outside? A beat and then Caravaggio shuffles in. Like an old boxer.
I told her you can forget everything but you never forget your name.
I told her you would never invent such a preposterous name.
And you've forgotten yours.
Me? You've got the wrong end of the stick, old boy. So - Caravaggio - Hana thinks you invented your name.
Are you planning to be the exception?
I think anybody she ever loves tends to die on her.
All over? I kept trying to cover a very modest portion and still failed. Are you leaving us? Now's our opportunity to swap war wounds.
Oh, all over.
I understand you were in Africa. Whereabouts?
Thief, I think, is more accurate.
Finally! So you're our Canadian pickpocket?
Marzipan! I think you've got marzipan in your hair. No wonder you're homesick.
I do so love you. What do you smell of?
Geoffrey, you do so love putting on a disguise.
Sweetheart, you know we can't go home, there might be a war.
Can't we really go home? I can't breathe. Aren't you dying for green, anything green, or rain, wouldn't you die to feel rain on your face? It's Christmas and it's all - I don't know - if you asked me I'd go home tomorrow. If you wanted.
Sweltering. Come on, I'll take you home.
I'm not pregnant. I'm hot. I'm too hot.
Lady H said she thought you might be -
I'm fine. I got hot.
Darling, I just heard. You poor sausage, are you all right?
But finally able to explore the Cairo night-life. I shall produce an authoritative guide to the Zinc Bars and - I want to say Harems - am I in the right country for Harems?
Well look, if nobody minds, truly, then I suppose - I shall, of course, be bereft
Why do you think? About my staying?
Well, she is!
Darling, for goodness' sake!
I was just saying, I'm going to cable Downing Street, see if I can't stir up a few shillings - Katharine's mother and the PM's wife are best -
The team is in mourning, darling.
Off with his head!
But then the Queen looked up and saw Gyges concealed in the shadows. And though she said nothing, she shuddered. The next day she sent for Gyges and challenged him. And hearing his story, she said this -
Have to return the favor - take a few photographs for the army.
Did Katharine say? - Geoffrey has to fly back to Cairo.
And a special thank you to Geoffrey and Katharine, without whose fund raising heroics we should still be kicking our heels. They toast the Cliftons.
Very much so. We are all, save my friend here.
Good heavens, are you married, Madox?
I won't hear of it. None of us will.
Oh no, really. She has her book.
Of course. Well, we should all go out onto the terrace.
This is Clive Fenelon-Barnes.
I think you know all of us, except for Geoffrey and Katharine Clifton, who've recently come out from England.
We can finally consign my old bird to the scrapheap. Almsy smiles and walks on towards the others.
Isn't it? Wedding present from Katharine's parents. I'm calling it Rupert Bear. Hello. Geoffrey Clifton.
Marvelous plane. Did you look?
That was a dance we invented at the International Sand Club.
Never heard of it.
Who knows the Bosphorus Hug?
Would you like me to?
Why don't you go? You should sleep.
Don't depend on it. Will you? That little bit of air, each day there's less of it, which is al right, which is quite all right.
You'd better be.
I'm still here.
- to her cooking.
Hana was just telling me that you were indifferent -
I don't think it's indifference.
I don't think it does. Anyway, he's indifferent to me.
You like him, don't you? Your voice changes.
Condensed milk - one of the truly great inventions.
Arguing about books.
Kip's another one.
I've been told that before.
Good morning. Did you know that? You're always singing?
In that case, I suppose we can't charge.
They have to clear all the local roads of mines. That's a big job. They won't stay in the house. They're putting up their tent in the garden.
We should charge! Doesn't anyone have a job to do?
With his Sergeant. A Mr. Hardy.
Why? Is he staying?
I liked it better when there were just the two of us.
My mother always told me I would summon my husband by playing the piano.
Really? That's sudden.
I'll probably marry him.
Sikh. If he wears a turban, he's a Sikh.
He wants us to move out, says there could be fifty more mines in the building. He thinks I'm mad because I laughed at him. He's Indian, he wears a turban.
K is for Katharine.
Tell me about this, this is in your handwriting - December 22nd - Betrayals in war are childlike compared with our betrayals during peace. New lovers are nervous and tender, but smash everything - for the heart is an organ of fire I love that, I believe that. Who is K?
Yes, of course, I'm so sorry. Stupid of me. Hana gets up, upset to have hurt him.
Could I ask you to move? I'm sorry - but when you turn, the sheets, I can't really bear the sheets moving over me. Sorry.
Do I recognize him? I recognize what he is. I like him. He's Canadian. He can read Italian. He can catch rabbits.
He keeps asking me questions about you. Do you know him? Do you recognize him?
That's a different dress.
He came back, he says he caught a rabbit. I'm cooking it.
Something smells so rich. My stomach is heaving -
Please, don't waste your time on pleasantries -
This is Captain McGann.
Thank you. Thank you.
Well then - yes. Of course.
No, I can't go, but if it, if you weren't offended, it would be very good of you to allow us - every other cabin is crammed. This is as private as we'll get.
Just go off. I'll be quite all right.
He's going back to the front this evening. I can't see him otherwise.
Can I ask - my friend, can he come in? Just for a few minutes?
Excuse me -
He won't disturb us then. I think he's after morphine. There's a war. Where you come from becomes important. And besides - we're vulnerable here. I keep hearing noises in the night. Voices.
Me? He can't. I'm already disturbed.
He needn't disturb you.
Why are people always so happy when they collide with someone from the same place? What happened in Montreal when you passed a man in the street - did you invite him to live with you?
Why? Can he lay eggs?
There's a man downstairs. He brought us eggs. He might stay.
Because I'm a nurse.
Why are you so determined to keep me alive?
Are you crazy?
Could I have a cigarette?
Are you remembering more?
I can see my wife in that view.
No sand. That's your drugs speaking.
Zerzura, the White City of Acacias, the Oasis of Little Birds. As me about the scent of acacia - it's in this room. I can smell it. The taste of tea so black it falls into your mouth. I can taste it. I'm chewing the mint. Is there sand in my eyes? Are you cleaning sand from my ears?
I'm turning you.
Not the window - I can't bear the light anyway - no, I can see all the way to the desert. I've found the lost fossils.
How? How can you see anything?
I can already see.
I should try and move your bed. I want you to be able to see the view. It's good, it's a view from a monastery.
Yes. Dropping off.
Are you asleep?
When my wife comes to lie down she always lays her garments one by one on a seat near the entrance of the room, and from where you stand you will be able to gaze on her at your leisure
I'm not laughing at you. Go on, please.
Candaulesyou're laughing at me.
I will hide you in the room where we sleep, said Candaules. She stumbles over the word.
Oh - I've found plums. We have plums in the orchard. We have an orchard! She has peeled a plum and now slips it into his mouth.
My book? The Herodotus? Yes, we can read him.
I think they're all in Italian, but I'll look, yes. What about your own book?
Before you find too many uses for these books would you read some to me?
I was repairing the stairs. I found a library and the books were very useful.
What was all the banging? Were you fighting rats or the entire German army?
Because you're leaning? No, you're just on an angle. You're too heavy!
There was a Prince, who was dying, and he was carried up the tower at Pisa so he could die with a view of the Tuscan Hills. Am I that Prince? Hana laughs.
Where's your Stuart from? Somewhere near there, isn't it?
I love you.
I'm not sewing anything else for you!
Hana, I know you do!
You don't have any money, do you? Just in case there's silk.
I'm not sewing anything else.
There's meant to be lace in the next village - the boys are taking me.
So one day we'll meet.
I'll always go back to that church.
I'll always go back to that church. Look at my painting.
Then come with me.
I've clung to you. I've clung to you. Kip. Life a raft.
I'm thinking about your heart, not your skin. And how to reach it. And that I don't think I can. A bomb has ruined us, just not the bomb I thought would ruin us.
It's what I've learned.
Is that what you think? Is that what you think I think?
I know - here I am always a brown man, there you would be always a white woman.
Kip I -
I mean home. India.
Of course. When?
Will you come with me?
This is hot!
The lamp was burning all night in his room. Caravaggio was there with him.
I should go to the house, get breakfast.
When I went to England I was amazed at what went on, the waste - I'd been taught to re-use everything, the dung from a cow to cool a radiator, a fork to fix a typewriter - India could live for a hundred years on what I saw thrown away.
That gun at Lahor, Kipling's cannon - Zamzammah - remember? That was made out of the metal of ordinary things. I want to make an ordinary thing out of guns. His bayonet is thrust into the forge. It's red hot.
What are you up to?
You wouldn't come to find me? That makes me never want to come here. But she continues unraveling the turban.
Then I'd think there must be a reason.
But if it got late and I hadn't shown up?
I try not to expect you.
If one night I didn't come to the tent, what would you do?
You loved him.
I was thinking yesterday - yesterday! - the Patient, Hardy: they're everything that's good about England. I couldn't even say what that was. We didn't exchange two personal words, and we've been together through some terrible things, some - he was engaged to a girl in the village! - I mean - and us - he never once He didn't ask me if I could spin the ball at cricket or the kamasutra or - I don't even know what I'm talking about.
Kip - come and dance with me
This is what I do. I do this every day.
Don't go. I'm frightened. I can love a coward, I can't love another dead man.
Don't talk. Check again. Lie flat and then cut.
Kiss me. Before I cut. Just in case.
No. But he hands them over.
Actually, you can't cut, can you? You'll fall over. Give me the pliers.
You must get away. Before I cut. I'm not cutting if you're here. He's struggling. He's going to topple over if he cuts.
I'm not scared. So many people have died around me. But I would be a shame for us. I don't feel like being shy.
Okay. Get away from here. Quick.
I promise you that was the right thing to do. He's my good luck. Now cut. This one. I hope we don't die.
What is this business with you and explosives? Do you think you're immune?
I've done this. I've had to do this.
Why would anyone do this?
I follow the wires.
You get Hardy.
So I follow the wires?
There's a mine here, but the others are far enough away, I think at least to give me a chance. I have to work out which one to cut before I fall over.
What do I do?
The mines, the wires, there's a trick. Some explode if you stretch the wires, some if you cut them.
It's okay - I'll help. Please.
I didn't like that book either. It's all about men. Too many men. Just like this house.
I'll get another tin. Hana and the Patient are alone.
Yes, for your hair.
For my hair?
Try this. I found a great jar of it. Olive oil. In Naples this was so precious it would have bought you a wife.
I don't think so.
I've met you before.
No, but, no, not at all. I'm sorry. You came to the doors, that's all and - - such good manners for someone worried about mines. That's all.
Is something funny?
I see. Then may be you're safe as long as you only play Bach. He's German. Kip is looking around the piano. Hana giggles.
The Germans were here. The Germans were all over this area. They left mines everywhere. Pianos were their favorite hiding places.
Excuse me. Yes? I don't have the key to that door.
Oh God. Oh God.
No. He's - no.
He's gone, hasn't he?
Does he know a Captain McGann? The boy hears this, whispers to Oliver.
Third Canadian Fusiliers.
He's from there - edge of Lake Ontario right, Soldier?
If anything happened to you I'd never forgive myself.
He can't even move.
And what if he really is a spy?
I need morphine. A lot. And a pistol.
It's not safe here. The whole country's crawling with Bandits and Germans and God knows what. It's madness. I can't allow it. You're not, this is natural - it's shock. For all of us. Hana -
When he dies I'll catch up.
It's not over everywhere. I didn't mean literally.
The war's over - you told me yourself. How can it be desertion?
What if you couldn't find him? Sergeant, not today, please. Not this morning.
Does he have to go?
A bomb. At the Viaduct. She closes the door, then reappears.
I'll tell him. What is it? Is it a mine?
Only we have to go to work.
I was looking for the Lieutenant Singh.
You saved my life. I haven't forgotten. I thought you were very very tall. You seemed to big - a Giant - and I felt like a child who can't keep her balance.
I'll ask the Lieutenant. But thank you.
Since Caravaggio turned up - food seems to appear, so please.
Very kind of you, we can always eat in the town with the others -
I was going to say - if you want to eat with us, ever you and Lieutenant Singh
I'm feeling old.
I thought that was for when we were very very old?
I had a hotel room.
I was looking forward to this evening.
A bit of one.
You've got a mustache.
We can do that when we're very, very old.
I'd like to spend a night with you in a bed.
I've got a surprise. A boat! We can go to Capri. It's got a cabin, it's private.
Sorry. I took a Benzedrine.
Whoa - give me a chance!
This is making me incredibly angry.
You've got to cut, sir, that frost won't last.
I'm afraid so, sir. Kip hurries to his tent. Hana follows him.
What's happening? Am I needed?
Don't move! Stand ABSOLUTELY STILL! Hana stops.
Hey! Hey! Stop! Hey!
I insist. There clearly isn't room for us all, I'm the least able to dig, and I'm not one of the walking wounded. Those are facts. Besides, if I remain it's the most effective method of persuading my husband to abandon whatever he's doing and rescue us. It's hard to argue with this logic.
Darling, Peter says I could stay
A more modest expedition, or even wait a year. Remind our families we still exist.
How awful. What will you do?
I'm afraid we're not having much luck obtaining funds for the expedition.
Not at all. I was thoroughly enjoying by book. Please. Signor D'Agostino, Herr Bermann.
Mrs. Clifton, you'll have to forgive us. We're not accustomed to the company of women.
It doesn't matter. Really. I think I can muddle through. Okay - The Story of Candaules and Gyges. King Candaules was passionately in love with his wife - One day he said to Gyges, the son of somebody, anyway - his favorite warrior -
Your book. Your Herodotus! Almsy looks uncomfortable.
No, please. I shall be absolutely fine. They pass Almsy, who doesn't look up from his book.
I'll come with you.
I think I might go inside and sit down for a few minutes.
How romantic. With Fiona I fell over every five minutes. Ronnie Christened me Lady Downfall.
I don't think so.
You should sit down, darling. She's quite all right. Are you pregnant?
Coming. I can't sleep. I woke up shouting in the middle of the night. Geoffrey thinks it's the thing in the desert, the trauma.
Go on, do it. I don't need to hear any more.
They're excited! They're happy about destroying a whole city. Would they do that to a White Man's City? Never!
What have I been doing all this time? Do you know how many mines I've seen? - more mines than there are soldiers, more - how many mines we've put in the ground ourselves, stuffed in corpses, dropped out of the sky. And now this.
What are you talking about?
I looked up to you, Uncle. My brother always said I was a fool. Never trust the British, he said: the deal-makers, the map-makers; never shake hands with them.
What's he saying?
This is wonderful!
Hana, we have discovered a shared please - the boy and I.
What I really object to, Uncle, is your finishing all my condensed milk. And the message everywhere in your book - however slowly I read it - that the best destiny for India is to be ruled by the British.
So what do you really object to - the writer or what he's writing about?
It's still there, the cannon, outside the museum. It was made of metal cups and bowls taken from every household in the city as tax, then melted down. Then later they fired the cannon at my people - comma - The natives.
- The Wonder House comma as the natives called the Lahore Museum.
Brick platform opposite the old Ajaib-Gher -
I think so. Although I believe that to be true of a number of Germans. Might I have a glass of water?
Then you were married?
Or my wife's.
This was your garden?
You tell me. I remember a lot of things. I remember a garden, plunging down to the sea - the Devil's Chimney we called it - and there was a cottage at the bottom, right on the shore, nothing between you and France.
How do you know you're not German if you don't remember anything?
Why? Are you German?
Am I being interrogated? You should be trying to trick me. Ask me about Tottenham Hotspur. Or Buckingham Palace. About Marmite - I was addicted. Or make me speak German, which I can, by the way.
No. I think I was a pilot. I was found near the wreckage of a plane by the Bedouin. I was with them for some time.
What about your rank or serial number?
I'm going to get him, I promise you.
Tell me where you are, or just leave the line open so I can trace you.
Too late now.
Listen to me. Whatever you're doing, stop. Pull out.
He's on to something bigger.
In the middle? You've got the Mask, why don't we have him?
I'm in the middle.
Gin? Where the hell are you?
I'll send you a postcard. Got to go.
Where are you at least?
Look, trust me. I know what I'm doing.
Don't overestimate yourself.
You, want to blow the whole thing, go right ahead.
This is dangerous. I'm sending backup.
I don't know, but close.
We're getting close.
Yeah yeah yeah. What's the status?
This was my first excuse to get away. I can't exactly use my cell phone.
You don't call, you don't write.
Which you have in mind.
And a target guaranteed to catch his interest.
I'd need an introduction. From someone he trusts. Someone who owes us a favor.
How would you approach him? Hello, Mr. MacDougal, I'm Gin, would you steal a painting with me?
I've been following this guy for years. I'm your best shot.
With that computer--nobody better. Out there...it's different. You twisted your ankle stepping over a curb on Madison Avenue.
It's not the thinking of it, it's the doing it.
Why didn't I think of that?
We've got to catch him in the act.
You got a better idea?
They've never caught him before, what makes you think they'll catch him now?
You're saying the thief wants us to think it's Mac but it's really not.
Give me a break. Remember Manzini? When he stole Montezuma's scepter he left a Pepto Bismal bottle. The best ones always copy Mac.
Put the bolts on that window under a scope, I'm betting you'll find wrench scratches on them.
And the draft blew over the flowers.
Meaning no one arranges calalilies like that. He left the window open when he came in. His only mistake.
Let a thousand flowers bloom. Chairman Mao.
You ordering chop suey again?
Interesting theory. Where's the proof?
He unscrewed the bolts, reset them on rollers, then slid the whole frame away. No more effort than it takes to vacuum a floor.
That's great if you're a computer. In the real world that pane weighs 200 pounds. The building's 600 feet high.
So he popped the pane?
Entry through the doors or vents triggers instant alarm.
The windows don't open.
Through a window.
A thief this good could handle the sensors in the rooms. What we don't get is how he effectuated his entry.
I don't recall asking your permission.
I don't recall authorizing you to have a personal life.
I hardly knew the guy. Why be impolite to strangers?
You didn't answer the beeper either.
There are times when you don't answer the phone.
Where were you? I called at 4:30 this morning.
You mean the seven billion.
You gave them the eight billion.
They've been on to you all along. Knew you had a big job going.
That would be Thibadeaux. The cop I work for every now and then. Catching thieves. The really good ones--the ones who imitate me.
He looks familiar.
Both sides of the street, I'm afraid.
--You're a cop.
You have the right to remain silent. But anything you say may be taken down in evidence and used against you--
What about you?
It's only ninety seconds up the line. You're on a connection to a trans Siberian express.
Take the airport subway, but change at Jordan Station for Kowloon Tong.
Nothing is wrong. Everything is the way it has to be. In my left coat pocket is a packet. Passports, hotel reservations, tickets.
I'm not leaving without you.
Put this on!
No, you can't.
I cannot get rid of you.
Get out of here!
You can do it.
I sincerely hope not.
The door's the only way out!
We can't help it, we...we've gotta...
The disc is still in there.
MOVE IT, WHAT ARE YOU WAITING F...
We can't leave it IN THERE, it's got all our accounts, everything that can NAIL us to a goddam CROSS!!!
Don't panic, now, there's no rush...
Relax, don't jam it...
Hong Kong midnight, happy new year. Except at China Bank.
Jesus God, it's going through.
They'll each be positive the other guy did it. I fear an ugly international incident.
China will think it happened before midnight. Britain will swear it happened after midnight...
And when, eventually, everyone discovers what transaction XJ6 was really about...
Brought us luck once, maybe it will again.
The sign of our partnership.
I'm leaving from the Nathan Road Station at 6:30 tomorrow morning. You could come too.
They drive so recklessly there.
I'm going to disappear. I die in a car crash in Taiwan. Very easy to do.
What? Another job? Stealing the Eiffel Tower?
Not for me.
A flaw in your research, my dear. I grew up chewing shoe leather for breakfast.
That's because you grew up rich.
Seen one billion, seen them all.
Four billion dollars.
Oh, I don't care about the money.
So what are you going to do with your share?
Nothing like fear of drowning to focus your attention.
Of course not. It was just a negotiating ploy.
Have really held you under?
But would you--would you--
But that's all behind us now.
It was wrong to deceive you.
That was a lifetime ago.
Call it a new tradition.
You have something in mind?
There is one more thing.
Can't break tradition. It's bad luck.
You shouldn't have.
No. You'll see when we get inside.
No way to take another day or two?
Done. And I assume you have the magic CD- ROM?
Let me guess. His retinal plate is in there.
Two men in the world don't need passwords or codes. Their retinas will scan to unlock everything. one of those two men is the chairman of the bank.
Can't be too careful.
Access codes to the vault are changed daily, passwords for our computer on the hour...
Like a woman of mystery.
How do I look?
For God's sake, the only way I can get from one elevator to the other is to jump.
Look, there's a video security system to bypass, that's the only hard part. You've done that a dozen times.
You're overestimating yourself again. What's worse, this time you're overestimating me.
I've covered everything. And you're the best, so--
There's always a surprise.
There's no way to practice this. And no time. Besides, I've planned it all. There aren't any surprises.
You're out of your mind. We can't do a job like this with no rehearsal.
That's the beauty of it. There's only one tiny window of time when this will work. At the handover of Hong Kong--from Britain to China. The handover from them to us.
You can't be serious.
We're doing it tonight.
So how long till we do this?
You've thought of everything.
That's where the Mask comes in.
Then the vault, how to get in the vault, that's stumping me.
It's no good without the argon gas.
The oscilloscope's already programmed.
Sit down, I'll show you how we're going to do it.
A parting gift from the Empire.
Nope. The CD instructs the computer to replace those instructions with an innocuous loan coded XJ-6.
But those instructions, they're recorded in the computer.
Every wire transfer gets rocketed through a series of multiple switches. As soon as each deposit lands somewhere, it's shot somewhere else. It ends up so clean the Mafia couldn't find it.
And the money goes--
It's taken me five years at Webber Insurance, nights, weekends, every spare minute, to make this CD. It has all the necessary instructions and confirmation codes to tell their computer to transfer reasonably modest sums out of thousands of those accounts, two, or three million at a crack. Total, eight billion and change.
Where the money is.
Peoples China Bank.
Guest lists of every A-list party on turnover night. They'd be handy to disappear into, so we're invited to all of them.
Right. The eight billion.
The eight billion. From them to us.
Currency data so we can do optimum conversions at the moment of transfer.
You're being useless. I'm making us rich.
Well...What are we doing?
My job, my rules.
What about the rules?
I'd taken the Mask?
Oh my god, I thought--
Would you quiet down! Just for a minute?
Do you know what you've done!? Do you know?
You took the Rembrandt, I figured it was a fair trade.
The Mask. Where is it?
There's food in the fridge. I won't be long.
Idle hands, the devil's workshop.
Everyone has secrets, it's what makes us human.
Okay, look, I'm delivering this to a man who's going to give us the key to our job. But it's pointless to try to explain it yet. You just have to trust me. I don't have any more secrets.
Insidious thing, wondering if your partner...has another partner.
I told you. It's the down payment. And thanks to you it's overdue.
Sure, it's only worth 25 million or so, don't bother telling me what you're going to do with it.
I'll need the Rembrandt now.
You've got everything planned.
I always knew you'd do the job.
Hold the record. Alone.
Come on, what can you do with six billion you can't do with four?
It's fifty-fifty, less the cost of the dress.
My eighty, your twenty, smart guy--
No, really, it's your plan, you should get at least 30 per cent--
If you want a partner, I think you should recalculate the split.
Speaking of money. You said billions. How many?
I like banks. That's where the money is.
You don't know the half of it.
We're living history here.
Get the hell in.
A billion dollars.
There is no big job.
The big job.
It's your mistake.
STOP! You're making...mistake.
What do I need a thief for? I've got the Mask.
Okay, you're a thief.
No, no, please God, you're wrong. I'm a thief. Just like you.
You're playing both sides of the street. You're going to keep the Mask and turn me in.
Now's when you tell me who you really are.
We did it.
Be careful not to break the laser beams.
They moved it.
Can you see the other PIRs?
Yes, you can. You can spoil a perfectly nice dance.
You can't be too careful.
These rooms are solid stone. They haven't changed.
Don't turn. I'm counting the steps to the entrance.
You're not on the beat.
One, two, three...
Let's mingle a little, shall we?
It's a party.
In eye of that painting.
Popup, on floorboards. And--
Camera in the--
He pulled back his arms and blam, I landed right on the floor. I picked myself up, tears in my eyes, and he looked at me and he said, Son, don't ever trust anybody. Anybody.
Something like that.
So you had to be your own lifeline.
My father told me not to be afraid. He'd always be there for me.
Aren't we all.
I had a lifeline. If I've got a lifeline, I'm okay.
How in the devil did you do the Rembrandt then?
Terrified. Still am.
You were afraid of heights?
When I was a girl my father took me to the edge of El Capitan. Three thousand feet of granite. Straight down. I was so scared my mouth was full of cotton. I couldn't talk, just stood there shivering...like this.
You're nervous again.
To us. To the Mask.
Little celebration before we set off.
Aren't we early?
I've got something for you.
Certainly the most beautiful crook I've ever seen.
Straight down the drive, right at the hedgerow, follow the lane. Don't blink, you'll miss it.
Won't take any time.
It's not a village. There's nothing there.
No, no, I want to. I'll just go into the village.
Don't get any ideas. Of course it comes out of your share.
You bought this for me?
I trust it's your size.
One more item--not on the check list.
That's it. We're ready.
The lipstick thermal camera?
A dozen times.
And you've checked the ram to be sure it's synchronized with the clock.
Twenty four seconds--as long as it takes the clock to strike twelve.
So how long to pop the floor?
Yes you did.
I didn't mean to get personal.
It was a long time ago.
All this, this is a woman's version of what you would like.
Our equipment has arrived.
Did I hear a car?
Try laps. Say a hundred.
Let's do it again.
We are...for the tools.
Why don't we take oxygen?
Oh, I think you can do it. Probably.
So you're testing <u>me</u> now?
Let's just see how we do.
So the Mask is part of the down payment too. Must be a really big job.
Without the Mask it doesn't matter.
A partner with secrets isn't much of a partner.
We get the Mask I'll tell you.
On what? Another job?
No. It's a down payment.
Don't worry, I can get rid of this. No trace. And I'll even go fifty fifty, we're partners aren't we?
This isn't a good time to hear your personal philosophy.
No one <u>needs</u> anything except food and shelter. The rest we just want.
I'll need that.
You're too easily impressed with yourself. I believe I've made that point before.
Someone was expecting that.
It was perfect.
The Rembrandt--that was quite good.
You need a partner for this job. You'll never find one as good as me.
I drilled the bolts and went in through the window. It was the only way to bypass the smart glass.
I wondered who'd been giving me a bad name.
That's because I wanted them to!
Nice try. Everyone thinks I did.
No, dammit! I mean me! That Rembrandt...that Rembrandt!
A lifelong problem, I'm afraid.
You don't have any idea how lucky you are!
This isn't some Picasso print you steal out of a car dealer's rec room.
Look, I can help. You need a sensor expert. You've got one.
Pack up. I'll see you get back to London.
You don't get the Mask code unless I go.
I go in alone.
Precisely. You give me the Mask security code, I steal the Mask, you get a finders fee. At ten percent, should be two or three million at least. Not too bad.
We're doing this together. We're partners.
We? Are you implying that I'm taking you inside?
We go underwater?
So the Duke dug a tunnel--just in case. They made the lake a hundred years later. Flooded the tunnel.
That's when we'll do it. And we'll need every single day.
They're having a farewell party the last night. Before the Mask goes back to Taiwan.
Only a week?
In a week.
Years ago, if memory serves. When does the exhibit end?
As I recall, you've robbed it before.
I know it well.
It is. Coffee and fruitloops or whatever you eat in the kitchen. We'll start in twenty minutes.
And good morning.
My job, my rules. We've got a job to do. No mixing business and pleasure.
Why are we in separate--you know, separate rooms?
I guess I have a more optimistic view of human nature than you do.
Nothing? You don't even lock the door?
Hmmm. I'd be surprised if you could.
I'm impressed. Can't spot a thing.
I'm just curious what sort of security system you'd have in your own house.
You really don't believe I'd take on a partner after all these years without a little...insurance?
What's my problem? You want a list?
What's your problem? I'm doing the job.
I don't believe this.
No. Entrapment is what cops do to robbers.
Where's my bag?
I'm a thief. Sue me.
You stole my luggage? You--
Certainly not mine. Come on.
Those are my clothes.
I never carry...baggage.
What about your bags?
I'm not the one to ask...
We're going to die, aren't we...
We're only going one way.
It's one way.
Not bad. I didn't expect you to make it out.
What the hell was that?
Up to you. You could tell him the check is in the mail.
What the hell do I do now?
Damn, I knew I forgot something.
He says they turned the card down.
That's what you're buying. Put it in your pocket.
A film case.
Look on the back. What do you see?
I'm telling you it's a forgery. The paint's still wet for God's sake.
Can you follow simple directions?
Give him the card.
It's a fake.
I'm paying...one point five million and change. I hate round numbers.
How much am I paying?
It's simple. You pick up the painting, you pay for it with this debit card.
Fine. What do I do?
That's my girl.
It's a test.
If I can't trust you to pick up a painting, how can I trust you about the Mask?
I'm not here to run errands. I'm here for the Mask.
Quite a good one. A Monet. Not major, but it is Giverney.
You want me to pick up a painting?
Not a word.
Maybe you should go buy yourself some clothes.
Maybe I should drive this time.
We going somewhere?
It's only on exhibit at the Queen's Museum this month. Even if you could get into the museum, the Mask bas its own security system. A special, randomly programmed interval code.
Besides, if I lacked certain ethical scruples about the ownership of property--which I do not--I wouldn't need a partner, much less a callow girl. I'd do it myself.
Roki has a vivid imagination.
But Roki said--
So you've heard all those stories about me. Well, I can assure you they're not true. And if they were true, I've retired.
It's not for sale.
I suspected it might be worthy of your interest.
That old pirate Chiang Kai Shek personally took this to Taiwan when he was run out of China in 1949. Peking would dearly love to have this back...
Somewhat better than that temple scroll you were bidding on.
The most important piece of Chinese art outside of China.
The Empress Death Mask.
I'm sorry. This just means so much to me.
For God's sake.
Good. I'll call the concierge. They can get you a new room, book your flight home, so forth.
Are you under the impression that now I'm in some way obligated to you?
We were, we are, but this is perfect for you.
And I thought we were getting on so well.
Oh, that's quite all right. No charge.
I've got something for you.
Because you young Americans think the world began when you were born. You fall apart when you don't get your own way.
No. Why would I be?
You're shaking. Are you nervous?
Of course I can. I have a note from mother.
Do you mind?
I didn't expect you to be so...
Oh, I'm taking you...quite seriously.
You're not taking me seriously.
I sincerely hope so.
I've got something...
Of course you wouldn't. The Rembrandt wouldn't fit.
Like I would have art in my suitcase.
Maybe the thief thought you had something valuable. You are in the business, that's what Roki says.
Yes. But they don't have a clue. Why would anyone steal my luggage?
You're joking. You can't trust anyone these days.
I don't care about the damned car. My luggage's been stolen.
That's good. Terrific.
It was only a scratch. Far more damaging to my trousers than to me.
You seemed to be handling everything quite nicely.
It's nothing serious. I'll just run into that building. They'll have some sort of first aid kit.
I'll call an ambulance.
Seems I am.
Meet me in front. Five minutes.
You have a car?
Something of great value, something of such artistic and historic significance that only you could truly appreciate...
Believe me, if you weren't so tiresome, I'd have one for you.
I have a proposal for you.
I don't want to waste your time.
Where did you hear that, one of those American talk shows? Check, please.
I'm sorry about the scroll, but sometimes you have to lose to win.
You're like malaria. Once you get it, you can't get rid of it.
How about if you try disappearing.
How about if I try humility.
No you can't.
A billion people speak Chinese. Don't be too impressed with yourself. As for that scroll, I can resell it for double. In 30 minutes.
Uh. I'm showing off.
Why are we speaking Chinese?
That is of no interest.
Who am I?
I have a question...
Tomorrow. It has to be tomorrow. Or forget the Mask.
You should know, when I come back here with the Mask--if anything goes wrong, a detailed description of everything you've done goes to the PRC.
Always in a rush.
We need to make the trade tomorrow.
A true master. Classic, yet extremely sexual, don't you think?
Yeah. Probably not.
I been meaning to tell you, far as I'm concerned you're over the hill.
Yes it does.
Takes a lot out of you, one like this.
We wear so many goddam masks after a while they get stuck to our faces, you know? And they don't come off. But when you find the one person who really knows you, and then you lose her...
My friend, you always surprise me.
Did I ever tell you what Tina wrote? The night she died?
I really don't think that's a topic on which you have much to offer.
You got a real problem with priorities, you know that?
The face decays, the mask doesn't. Art lasts, we don't. That's why art's so valuable. It's a little piece of immortality.
I figured that out.
Take this mask. It may look like the Empress, but it's not.
You don't really think I'd leave ten million dollars worth of our chips in her bag? What matters isn't what's real. It's what we <u>think</u> is real--what matters is the art.
Thought you had to use some of these.
Call it an expression of trust.
You're giving them to me?
Thirty-five next generation microchips. Copper, not silicon. Value: one million each.
She won't tell me everything. It's a bank job, that's all I know.
Faith is angels dancing on the head of a pin. I got to have trust.
You'll just have to have faith.
To yourself, that's where.
You know where my loyalties lie.
You better be keeping your mind on business. It's not just me you got to worry about. I've got some very unpleasant folks looking over my shoulder.
It's never happened before. What makes you think it's happening now?
My antenna is up, it is fully extended, and I am picking up...what is it? It is, can it be? The boy is in el, u, v.
She reminds you of yourself. There's nobody you admire more.
She's good. Give her that. Almost as good as she thinks she is.
You're impressed with her, aren't you?
She's calling the shots now.
I'm waiting for the tell part.
This is just show and tell.
That's because we live in the future. Which is what's on my mind.
It's not just art, it's history. Something you Americans don't care about--because you haven't got any.
Doesn't look like much. How come those Commos want it so bad?
Check out my ball.
Tonight your league night?
I'm terribly sorry old man.
You damn well thought wrong.
Oh, look at me, darling. I thought this gentleman was a waiter.
You change partners, you change the rules.
Suspicious, after all these years?
You better not be taking on a new partner.
We're supposed to.
You two make quite a couple.
Because it pays off.
Remind me why.
So patience, Thibeau, patience. Trust me.
But the second mouse gets the cheese.
The early bird gets the damn worm.
It's too soon.
I cannot tell you a goddamned lie. She's selling you a pig in a poke. We better do this tonight.
You look like George Washington.
How the hell I'm supposed to know the damn difference?
I said a masked ball, not a costume party.
It better be worth it for me.
Oh, it is.
This better be worth 1t.
I'd say she's a size 6 who wears a size 4.
Black of course.
That's it, I sure as hell ain't no personal shopper.
I need you to get one more thing for me. A dress, elegant but sexy, something Grace Kelly would wear. Maybe a Balenciaga.
Because I never assume anything.
It's a death mask. Death mask means dead.
Let me ask you, this Mask, when they made it--was the old bitch dead or alive?
It's never big enough.
This is big enough.
We might not want to cash in our chips just yet. She has another job after this one. A big one.
You are a miracle worker.
Inconvenient is trying to find a pulsing laser with magic arms in two days.
If we don't bypass it, the temperature in the Mask room will change and set off the alarm. That would be inconvenient.
Sure wouldn't want you to be uncomfortable.
We're going to need a vacuum with a battery pack for the dust. The air filters might be wired. And a bypass hose for the AC.
You're not the one trying to get all this shit. You think they've just got a Crooks R Us on every corner?
The key to success is using the right tools.
Had to get a liquid plasma screen.
The porta power...comm kits...got the IR/Thermo camera?
And you do it so well.
Yeah, the lord of the manor doesn't haul his own groceries.
I'd give you a hand but it wouldn't look good.
Don't go getting sentimental. You're no damn good at it.
Tina was a wonderful woman.
In the van.
They work off the O2 tank just like the slice pack.
Next time I'll use valet parking.
I'm not real big on collecting banged up Ferraris at airports.
I'm gonna assume that was meant as a compliment, Anna, and just say thank you.
Um, Erin? Listen. Even though you're not necessarily my favorite person in the world ... ... sometimes you're not half-bad.
Don't use language with me --
What the fuck did you do with my stuff?
Where've you been?
Erin, you've been here three weeks. If you don't know how to do your job by now, I am not about to do it for you.
Anna? With this real-estate valuing stuff - - could you remind me, cause I'm a little confused about how exactly we do that.
That's a joke, right?
Oh, hell. I'm dyslexic.
... what we do in here is keep track of all the case files. That way, at any time, we can find out a case's status -- where it is in the office, stuff like that. We file 'em all here, alphabetically --
Hey, excellent. Thanks.
Tell you what, why don't you go on over to reception, tell them I said Mario should take you to the airport.
Thanks. I'll keep it in mind.
Mr. Masry, before you go off on some crusade, you might want to remember who it is you're dealing with here. PG&E is a 28- billion dollar corporation.
250,000 is all I'm authorized to offer.
Wait a minute -- I thought we were negotiating here.
A million things could have caused those problems. Poor diet, bad genes, irresponsible lifestyle. Our offer is final and more than fair.
You're kidding, right? Look at these readings for Christ's sake. PG&E's own technicians documented toxic levels of hexavalent chromium in those test wells, on numerous occasions.
I understand they've had a bad run of luck, health-wise, and they have my sympathies. But that's not PG&E's fault.
What about in terms of medical expenses? 250,000 doesn't come close to what this family's gonna have to spend on doctors.
In terms of land value out in Hinkley, Mr. Masry, we feel it's a more than fair price.
All of them.
All of 'em?
Fax these to this number, okay?
What's she doing here?
Nothing you can't show up for with a stain.
I didn't mean for you to leave them in the middle of the floor. Jesus. Look at me. What do I have this afternoon?
It's those files you asked for.
What the hell is this doing here?
Right. Lap-dancers are people too.
You shouldn't judge, Brenda.
Erin Brockovich. Car accident. Not her fault, she says. And she looks like such an honest girl, don't you think?
Whoa. Remind me.
He's a low-life. Speaking of which, that's your nine o'clock in there.
Carlos isn't a friend; he's a client.
Tequila. From your drug dealer friend.
What do you think? What's this?
His dry cleaners. You want him?
Oh, Jesus. Who's responsible for his pain and suffering this time?
That asshole smashed in my fucking neck!
An ER doctor who spends his days saving lives was the one out of control --
He came tearing around the corner, out of control --
So you say.
What? Hey -- <u>he</u> hit <u>me</u>.
What's your point?
So. You must've been feeling pretty desperate that afternoon.
Yeah. There's two. Why?
There's more than one?
Seventeen thousand in debt. Whew. Is your ex-husband helping out?
... or lemme guess -- toxic waste?
Usually, in adults, it's from exposure to bacteria or a virus or ...
How does someone get meningitis?
She must be a tough cookie, cause it's a pretty advanced case. I'd say she's been walking around with it for a few weeks now.
It's an inflammation of the spinal cord and part of the brain.
Meningitis? What the hell is meningitis?
Oh my God. Oh my God.
And get someone to help around the house.
Any school you want.
I can put them in a good school.
It's enough -- for whatever you need, for whatever your girls need, for whatever your girls' girls need -- it'll be enough.
I don't even know how much money that is.
Five million dollars.
Five million dollars?
And he's making them give five million of it to you all.
Oh, my God.
A number for the whole group, or for us?
The judge came up with a number.
Well, then -- if you're feeling up to it, maybe we should talk shop.
It's a good day. I feel good.
Well, I was gonna head over to the Browns now. I was thinking -- Mandy really values your opinion ...
You wouldn't happen to have a little time right now, would you, Donna?
Sure you are. You're just a happier woman, cause you don't have to deal with maxi-pads and underwire.
Sure wish I had longer to get used to the idea. You think if you got no uterus, and no breasts, you're still technically a woman?
Right, but -- didn't you say he was paid by PG&E?
No. Hunh-uh, see, that's not what the doctor said. He said one's got absolutely nothing to do with the other.
I know. But the toxicologist I been talking to? He gave me a list of problems that can come from hexavalent chromium exposure. And everything you all have is on that list.
Well -- then it's gotta be a different than what's in our water, cause ours is okay. The guys from PG&E told me. They sat right in the kitchen and said it was fine.
And you say this stuff, this hexavalent chromium -- it's poisonous?
It was right up on the PG&E property over there.
An on-site monitoring well? That means --
Not around here. This is a rough part of the world. Hard times, not a lot of money, not a lot of luck. It's a challenge, staying healthy in a town like this. Heck, even our dogs up and die.
Seems like an awful big coincidence -- your water being messed with and you being so sick.
I thought the same thing, right off the bat. That's why we went to see the doctor. But hunh-uh. Turns out one's got nothing to do with the other.
Well, hell, maybe that's why you all have been so sick --
It's a chemical they used over at that compressor station up the road there.
The chromium. Well, that's what kicked this whole thing off.
Cause of the chromium.
Wow. Why would they do that?
You bet. Paid for a check-up for the whole family. And not like with insurance where you pay, then wait a year to be reimbursed, either. They just took care of it. Just like that. We never even saw a bill.
Well, they paid for the doctor's visit.
Right, but -- I'm sorry, I don't see why you were corresponding with PG&E about it in the first place.
Are you kidding? With how our lives are, if I start subdividing files, I'll be sunk. I just kept all PG&E correspondence in one place.
Yeah, I can see that. I guess the only thing that confused me is - - not that your medical problems aren't important, but -- how come the files about them are in with all the real estate stuff?
So the whole idea of selling the house -- don't get me wrong, I'd be glad to move to some better place, but if they aren't gonna pay us properly, I just don't see the point.
I'll say. Holy moley.
Thank you. It's in remission now, thank the Lord, but you never know. And then while that's going on, I end up having to have a hysterectomy. Plus a whole mess of lumps removed from my breasts. All benign so far, but still, no matter how positive you stay, an operation can still take it out of you.
Yeah, I'm real sorry to hear that.
I know. They're more than a bit unusual. See, two years ago, Pete got Hodgkin's disease. That's a kind of cancer --
Yeah, I'm real glad you brought that up. I was going through your file here, and I ran into these medical records. They kinda surprised me --
Cause first you gotta move, then there's decorating, and if the windows aren't the same size, you know -- you're making all new curtains. Honest to God, I don't know if I have the energy. You know, I've been sick. Me and Peter both have.
Thank you. I think so too. That's why I'm being such a stickler on this house price thing. I don't mean to be a pain in PG&E's backside, especially after all they've done for Hinkley, but I look around here and I think, if they want this place, they're gonna have to pay for it. And I don't just mean pay for the house; I'd like them to pay me for the trouble of starting over.
Yeah? I should learn to do stuff like that. They make the place feel real homey.
I added air conditioning, put in the pool, made all those pillows by hand ...
Well it oughta be, with all the work I put into it.
This is a real nice place you got here.
Hell, no. I hate lawyers. I just work for them. You got a minute?
You're a lawyer?
I'm Erin Brockovich, from Masry & Vititoe?
Hi. Donna Irving?
The firm took in sixty. That's three percent. Seemed like a fair bonus to me.
Two million dollars?
What is that?
Okay, fine. <u>Fine</u> You backed me into a corner again. You're holding me hostage ...
Ed, I swear, I'm not --
"I can always find someplace else to work. Someplace that'll pay me a fortune and give me a view of the French Riviera ..."
I wasn't gonna --
The extortion, the threats ...
Here what comes?
Oh, okay. Here it comes.
Yeah. Yours is nicer.
You see your office?
Careful you don't spit from here; you could kill someone.
Cause you got a little voice in your head saying, do the right thing. Give him another chance.
How do you know that?
But I know you're not gonna quit on me.
The luckiest son of a bitch in the universe, Erin. The luckiest son of a bitch in history.
Say you'd be the luckiest son of a bitch on Earth if I didn't up and quit over all this.
I did. Both.
Say you shortchanged me and you shortchanged yourself.
I was wrong.
Say you were wrong.
I don't know what to say.
Oh, now don't get all jealous, Ed. I got a little something for you, too.
Ho - ly - shit.
You know what, Mr. Potter? I completely forgot your birthday this year. And seeing as how you've been so good to me, I think that is a terrible oversight. So what I been doing over the last few days is I've been putting together a present for you.
Erin? What are you --
No, I'm serious. You know what Kurt Potter is? He's the kind of guy who never would have taken this case in the first place. He's the kind of guy who would have sold these plaintiffs down the river when PG&E offered 20 million. He doesn't work like us, Ed. There's no little voice in his head telling him to do the right thing.
Because Kurt doesn't want to work with you. He thinks you're a loose cannon.
This isn't doctor's orders. It's mine. I'm saying you can't come.
The fuck I'm not. I don't care what the doctor says --
You're not gonna be there.
Okay, good. I think I should be the one to tell 'em, cause they trust me more than --
Tuesday at seven, at the Hinkley firehouse.
<u>I know</u>. We're having a meeting, it's all set up --
Fuck legal terms. We're talking about human beings here. Sick people. A whole bunch of them are gonna be dead in ten years. They need their money now! We gotta get 'em to agree to the arbitration, Ed. We gotta get every damn one of those plaintiffs to --
Hey, that's not so bad. Compare it to the Love Canal -- that was twenty years ago, and those people still haven't seen a dime. So in legal terms, ten years is --
I'm sorry, are you saying that if this thing goes to trial, it'll be <u>ten years</u> before these plaintiffs see their money?
Five years, maybe, for a trial. Double that for the appeal.
Wait, what do you mean, ten years?
Because. They know the evidence; they know they're gonna lose a jury trial. Maybe they wouldn't lose 400 million bucks, but once you factor in all they'd spend on this case in the next ten years, it makes a lot of --
So why would PG&E offer it?
With nothing linking it to the corporate offices yet, I'd say we'll end up on the lower end of that. Still a lot of money.
And if you had to guess ...
Between 50 and 400 million, definitely?
I know. I'm sorry. Do I get to hear what happened anyway?
I'm not gonna fire you. I wanted to. But then you got sick, and that woulda made me look like a shit. You embarrassed me, Erin.
If you're here to fire me, your timing's lousy.
Perks? Jesus -- <u>perks</u>?
Don't give me that. You've gotten plenty. You've been well-paid; you've gotten lots of perks ...
Bullshit. You stuck me in Siberia dictating to some God damn steno clerk so you could finish this thing without me. After all I've done for you, that's the thanks I get.
No one's taking anything --
How dare you take that away from me.
<u>Not personal</u>? That's my <u>work</u> in there, Ed. My sweat, my labor, my time. If that's not personal, I don't know what is.
Okay, now you're making this personal, and it isn't --
"Fun?" Jesus, "<u>fun</u>?" I kill myself for a year and a half, hand you the best case of your life on a God damn silver platter, remind you of why you became a lawyer in the first place, and you think of me as "fun?"
You're emotional. You're erratic. You say any God damn thing that comes into your head. And I'm not saying that's bad. That can be great; that can be a lot of fun --
And, what, I'm not serious?
Look, this is serious now. They're talking serious money --
Kurt thought? What about you? Do you think anymore?
Okay, look. It's an important meeting. Kurt thought, if it was just lawyers --
Bullshit. You'd drag me off my deathbed if it suited you.
Look, you said you weren't feeling great. I thought you should rest.
People don't fly down in their own god damn plane for "just a meeting" --
Erin, it's just a meeting.
If you tell me to relax, I'm gonna kick your fucking head off --
Gee, I wonder why.
Not in my world.
Because <u>that's how people treat each other</u>!
Why the fuck should I respect her?
Bullshit. It was a misunderstanding. But instead of handling it politely, instead of treating her with respect --
She insulted me!
He's got a reputation for doing all his --
Reasons PG&E thinks it shouldn't go to --
It's PG&E saying to the judge that we don't have a case. Their lawyers go --
What's a demur?
Don't joke. They might. So do me a favor and behave yourself for once. Ed Masry to see Kurt Potter.
Holy shit. Who do they represent, God?
It's eight million dollars, Erin. Eight million dollars.
Plus, 40 percent of 20 million's a whole lot of money.
Maybe. but maybe not. We still don't have anything linking this to PG&E corporate. Plus, there's the statute problem. Plus, we're way short on manpower, so we'd need to bring on more lawyers ...
Do you think we'd do better by going to trial?
And it's less than pocket change for PG&E.
... but it won't cover Annabelle Daniels's medical bills.
I'm thinking ... I wish someone else had to make this decision. 50 thousand bucks is more than any other California toxic plaintiff has gotten. Ever. But ...
So what are you thinking?
It's about 50 thousand per plaintiff.
Whoa. No shit.
Things like the head counsel for PG&E calling me with an offer. 20 million, plus attorney's fees. Take it or leave it.
What kind of things come up?
You might want to think real hard about the amount, too. My kids are sitting in the God damn parking lot right now, cause I still don't make enough to afford good child care. Makes me think about looking around for a job where I'm appreciated, for shit's sake.
I'll see what I can do.
I want my paycheck. By the end of the day.
Is that what you want?
Fuck you. Make time. Cause I bust my ass for you. I watch everything else in my life go straight in the toilet, for you. And what do you do for me? Huh? You see the way I'm treated around here -- but have you ever stood up for me once? Have you ever mentioned to everyone what good work I'm doing? Have you ever bothered saying, hey, Erin doesn't get paid the most cause she has the best tits; she gets paid the most cause she's the best God damn employee I've ever had?
Erin, you're a big girl. If you got a problem with Jane, work it out for yourself. I don't have time to deal with --
It's my paycheck. Which I earned. Which I deserve. Which I shouldn't have to beg for. That fat-ass bitch won't give it to me.
Oh, Jesus. You wanna tell me what the problem is here, or --
Yeah, I mind. You bet your ass I mind.
I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to put you on hold for just one second here -- Do you mind?
I want my fucking money --
Yeah. Yeah, I'm ... fine.
I was just asking. Are you all right?
No, Ed -- what with me running for my life, I didn't have time to check those things --
He's gone. Did you get a license plate? Or a make?
I don't know. Big. Dark.
What kind of truck?
Some guy in a truck -- he waited till I was alone, then he followed me, like, two miles. Jesus, I'm shaking. Get me a beer.
Someone's following me.
Boy, this job takes me to some of the best damn places, huh?
He said he'd be at the gas station at six.
D'you get his name? Course not. Jesus, Ed --
Hey. A new plaintiff called, wants to meet you. I told him we'd be out there Thursday.
They're trying to intimidate us. Tell them to wait in the conference room.
Jesus. They look like the Secret Service.
Yeah, I heard that one before.
From their tone of voice on the phone, I'd say they're taking us more seriously.
If they've sent that little shmuck Baum again, I'm gonna be real pissed off.
Well, good, Ed. I like working with you too.
Hey. I like working with you.
I would now.
You didn't care about my case?
Me too. That's why I like it. It's been a long time since I had a case I cared about.
Really? It makes me sick.
I like this case.
Jesus Christ, Ed -- you know, the more I work on this thing, the more I realize what a crock of shit this legal system is. Here we got a company that poisoned a whole aquifer -- that built a pool for a town, then filled it with toxic water -- and <u>we're</u> the ones who've gotta bust our ass proving things? That's just not right.
Then they didn't know. And if they didn't know, we can't hit 'em for punitive damages. And punitive damages is where the money is.
Show me the document that proves that.
Oh, they knew. They had to know.
PG&E corporate is claiming they had no way of knowing what was going on in Hinkley.
What do you mean?
We've got the PG&E fuckers in Hinkley by the balls. But nobody's getting rich unless we can pin this on the corporate PG&E fuckers in San Francisco.
Don't give me that. You're gonna get plenty rich off of this, Mr. 40 percent. We got those PG&E fuckers by the balls here.
Hey, I got a staff to pay, plus rent, plus I haven't billed a minute of my time since I started on this case, so you can quit hitting me up like I'm rich or something.
Yeah? Then gimme another raise.
Erin -- lemme tell you something. If I'da put three researchers on this, I wouldn't expect them to dig up all the information you got here. This is some damn good work.
For your information, Frank cares what was in those ponds 'cause he used to spend half his day wading around them. That was his job.
Jesus. I don't even wanna ask what you did to make this Melendez guy talk.
I guess it was a little too inconvenient. So for fourteen years, this stuff flowed into the groundwater, free as you please.
They skipped that step.
See, according to this, they were supposed to line the ponds so this shit couldn't seep into the ground. But guess what --
It didn't help, but no. The real problem's on the bottom.
And that's what caused the contamination?
They covered 'em over. And not too carefully either, cause you dig one inch under the surface, and the dirt is green as a fucking shamrock.
I don't remember seeing any ponds up there.
They used the hex chrom here, in these cooling tanks, as an anti-corrosive. Then they dumped it here, in these six ponds.
You wanna talk about --
She lived on the plume. You never know.
Is that what I think it is?
Another raise wouldn't hurt. And with all the time I'm gonna be spending on the road, I'll probably be needing my own cel phone, won't I?
Yeah, yeah. Remind me of that when I'm filing for bankruptcy.
You're doing the right thing, Mr. Masry.
Kinda like David and what's-his-name's whole fucking family. Okay, here's the deal -- if, and only if, you find me the evidence to back all this up -- I'll do it. I'll take it on.
Kinda like David and what's-his-name?
This is a whole different ball game, Erin. A much bigger deal.
Well -- I found one document at the water board that had a toxic test well reading from 1967. A hell of a lot of people have lived on that land since then.
You think there's more?
Four more. Eleven people. So far.
How many families we talking about here?
Okay, fine. I don't know shit about shit. But I know the difference --
Oh, you do? With all your legal expertise, you believe that?
We can get these people. With a little effort, I really think we can nail their asses to the wall.
I know how DNA works, Erin --
And this shit is bad news, Mr. Masry. Not only does it attack every organ of the body, it fucks with your DNA, too. That means these people's genes, and the genes of their kids, and the genes of their grandkids --
-- who happens to know they poisoned people and lied about it.
-- It's about being realistic. Something like this, Erin -- it could take forever. They're a huge corporation. They'd completely bury us in paperwork. I'm just one guy with a shitty little P.I. firm.
It's not about working hard --
Okay, so here's what I'll do. I'll go on up to Ted and Rita Daniels -- two of the nicest people you'd ever hope to meet, who spend every single day watching their little girl fight like a dog against this cancer -- I'll tell them we can't help them cause you don't feel like working that hard.
Because I said no. Look -- the only reason PG&E's even talking to us is cause this is a quiet little real estate dispute. We add plaintiffs, and suddenly we're in the middle of a toxic tort -- with a statute problem -- against a massive utility. No, thank you.
That's crazy -- why not?
Hunh-uh. Absolutely not.
And I realized, he's taking a chance too.
Then I don't get anything either.
I'm the one who's injured, and this joker who sits at a desk all day is gonna walk away with almost half my reward?
Boy, do I know how you feel. First time I heard that number, I said you got to be kidding me. Forty God damn percent?
Yeah. Isn't that a shame?
Mr. Masry, Mario gets lost going to the bathroom. They'll be driving around the valley for hours.
What, you think I'm made of money?
And you can't?
Because they can. You heard that kid -- they have 28 billion dollars at their disposal. They can afford to waste all the time in the world.
I don't get why they'd do that.
That wasn't an offer. A million would've been an offer. When they send the God damn mail clerk down to jerk me off, waste my time, it's a fuck you.
At least they made an offer.
It sure as hell sounded like they were sitting up and taking notice.
So you think we got 'em scared?
I'm telling you, the minute Brenda sent the fax -- I'm talking the second she pressed that send button -- PG&E claims department is on the phone to me, scheduling a meeting.
So far. But that place is a pig sty. I wouldn't be surprised if there's more.
This is the only thing you found?
A ten percent raise and benefits. But that's it. I'm drawing the line.
Ten. There's a lot of other places I could work.
Okay. A 5% raise, and --
Look, Erin, this is not the way I do business, this extortion nonsense.
I want a raise. And benefits. Including dental.
Lemme see it, will you?
Course I did.
That document you found, the one that says it was the bad chromium -- you didn't happen to make a copy did you?
Boy, you musta really fine-tooth-combed it then, huh? And <u>you</u> fired <u>me</u>. Jesus.
I didn't see any medical records in there.
The ones in the box of files. The box of files? The one from your office?
What medical records?
It doesn't take a genius to look at those medical records and think something's wrong.
So what made you think it was?
They told her something, but it can't have been too specific, cause I talked to her, and she sure didn't think her water was bad.
But, PG&E told her about the chromium?
You wanna know, you gotta hire me back. I got a lot of bills to pay.
So what's the story on this thing? This cancer stuff?
Boy, are you ever a shitty judge of people.
I don't know. Maybe cause you look like someone who has a lot of fun.
Now, why in the hell would you assume that?
Look, I'm sorry. You were gone. I just assumed you were off having fun.
Well, that was nice of him. Isn't it funny how some people go out of their way to help people and others just give 'em the ax?
He wanted you to know the legal limit for hexavalent chromium, is .05 parts per million. And that at the rate you mentioned, .58, it could be responsible for the cancers in that family you asked about. The Irvings.
I got an interesting call this afternoon. It was from a Dr. Frankel.
What are you doing here?
Bullshit. You're trying to feel less guilty about firing someone with three kids to feed. Fuck if I'll help you do that.
Come on, I'm trying to help here.
Okay, enough -- Now, look, Erin -- this incident aside, I don't think this is the right place for you. So what I'm gonna do is make a few calls on your behalf. Find you something else, okay?
That's not how we work here. You don't just leave a message and take off.
I left a message. I've been dealing with that real estate thing. I was gonna write up a whole damn report and --
Erin, you've been gone for a week.
I guess I'm not the right kind.
How come you're not at lunch with the girls? You're a girl.
You're a girl.
Yeah. I got it. No problem.
You do know how to do that, don't you?
Oh. Huh. Well, look, I got this file I need valued. Real estate thing. A lady has some property next to a PG&E plant that PG&E wants to buy. I need to know what to ask for it.
Out to lunch with the girls.
Give her a cold washcloth to suck on -- I gotta go -- there's a clean one in that bag -- I'll check back in a bit. Sorry. My kid --
Bullshit, you don't.
I don't wanna take your money, Mr. Masry.
All I have is hundreds.
Oh. Okay. That's okay.
Jane's the office manager. She handles payroll and petty cash. But she leaves early on Fridays.
I was wondering -- could you tell me who I'd talk to about maybe getting an advance on my paycheck? Just -- for the weekend.
I'm <u>not</u> everyone else, Mr. Masry. I'm someone you made promises to that you didn't deliver on. I trusted you. With my kids' well-being. Now, I'm smart, and I'm hard- working, and I'll do anything. But if you think I'm leaving here without a job, you got another thing coming.
Okay, look. If you really want to apply for a job here, you can do it the way everyone else does. Send in a rsum, make an --
I don't need pity. I need a paycheck. And I've looked, but when you've spent the last six years raising babies, it's real hard to convince someone to give you a job that pays worth a damn. So I figure, since you're the one who said I was gonna be okay, you should be the one to hire me.
I'm sorry about that. Really. But --
You said things would be fine, and they're not.
I never lied. I may have miscalculated -- that happens sometimes, but --
There's two things I can't stand, Mr. Masry. Being ignored, and being lied to. You did both.
You did? Wow, sorry about that. Listen, Mario's a little not so bright. He seems to think that you said --
You never called me back. I left messages.
Yeah? Well, fuck you. Sorry doesn't feed my kids.
I'm sorry, Erin.
<u>Settle down</u>? I got 74 bucks to my name, Mr. Masry! I can't <u>afford</u> to settle down!
Okay -- let's try and settle down here.
Bullshit. You told me I'd get half a million dollars. You told me I'd be set.
I told you the questions might get a little personal --
Oh, please, it was long over by then. God damn, he made me look like some cheap --
If you hadn't used profanity --
Open and shut? <u>Open and fucking shut</u>?
Yeah. I know.
... just wanna be a good mom, a nice person, a decent citizen. Just wanna take good care of my kids. You know?
... Matthew's six, Katie's four, and Beth's just nine months.
... couldn't take painkillers cause they made me too groggy to take care of my kids.
They took some bone from my hip and put it in my neck. I didn't have insurance, so I'm about seventeen thousand in debt right now.
I think we should makes some changes.
I've also been thinking about the team. Responsibilities, who should cover what --
Who's the judge?
Sixty-nine. We've got good answers to all of 'em.
How many counts?
When'd they file the demur?
At the time, I thought, I got six kids, some of 'em want to go to college. I can't afford to lose my job. I told myself I was being honorable. But there's nothing honorable in what I did. Maybe that's why they picked me for the job. Maybe they knew what kind of man I was.
How come you didn't say anything when you found these things?
Well. There were a few documents that I somehow didn't get around to shredding. That I kept instead.
What do you mean?
Course as it turns out, I'm not a very good employee.
And you were told to destroy those?
There was a lot of dull stuff -- vacation schedules, the like. But then there were a few memos about the holding ponds. The water in them. They had readings from test wells, stuff like that.
Well, it's pretty boring work, shredding -- you gotta find some way to entertain your mind. So yeah, I took a look.
Did you get a look at the stuff you destroyed?
Nope. And I didn't ask.
Did he say why?
I was working in the compressor, and out of nowhere the supervisor calls me up to the office and says, we're gonna give you a shredder machine, and send you on down to the warehouse. We want you to get rid of all the documents stored out there.
The fuck you don't. No one calls me Pattee. That heavy-breathing sicko that called the other night could've only found out about me from you. People are dying, Ross. You got document after document here, right under your nose, that says why, and you haven't said word one about it. I wanna know how the hell you sleep at night.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Hey, Ross. Tell me something. Does PG&E pay you to cover their ass, or do you just do it out of the kindness of your heart?
Ross -- you are an absolute angel.
You know what, Erin? I got nothing but time here. Why don't you let me do that for you, and you can get your kids some dinner.
Pattee? That your middle name?
Heck, yeah. Come on back. Just gonna need you to sign in here --
I wish I knew. It's for my boss. He's fighting his water bill, and he wants me to find all manner of bills from all kinds of places. The easiest thing would probably be if I just squeezed back there with you and poked around myself. Would that be okay?
You just tell me what you want to look at and I'll be glad to dig 'em out for you.
I guess I did.
You come to the right place.
Well, believe it or not, I am on the prowl for some water records.
Erin. Cool. What can I do for you, Erin?
Ross. Real pleased to meet you. I'm Erin.
Thank you very much. Aren't you a gentleman? Mr. ...
Oh, hey -- lemme give you a hand there.
Good luck. Oh -- I wouldn't advertise what you're looking for if I were you ...
County water board. All righty, thanks.
Every county has one. They keep records of anything water-related within their jurisdiction. You should be able to find something there.
Hunh-uh. What's that?
Have you been to the water board?
Well, how do I find out what kind of chromium is up in Hinkley?
Oh, yeah. Definitely. Highly toxic, highly carcinogenic. Bad, bad stuff.
So that stuff -- it kills people.
With repeated exposure to toxic levels -- God, anything, really -- respiratory disease, liver failure, heart failure, reproductive failure, chronic headaches, bone or organ deterioration -- plus, of course, any type of cancer.
Harmful, like -- how? What would you get?
Yes. There's straight-up chromium -- does all kinds of good things for the body. There's chrom 3, which is fairly benign, and then there's chrom 6, hexavalent chromium, which, depending on the amounts, can be very harmful.
There's more than one kind?
What kind of chromium is it?
I don't know.
What are you <u>doing</u>? Where's George?
That's not true; we had dinner together just last night.
It happens all the time.
Look, I know you're mad. But the way this job is, things come up at the last minute, real important things, and I gotta deal with them. Now I don't like me missing dinner any more than you do, but we're all gonna have to get used to it, cause the fact is, it's gonna happen sometimes.
Some kind of half-wit, no-good, big-haired, bimbo, I bet.
Yeah. A real moron.
I'm gonna hate it.
Oh, come on, where's your sense of adventure? We're going someplace you never been before.
I hate it too. I hate this trip.
Sweetheart, you can get a whole big bunch.
Mommy, can I get a flower?
How come you're not eating?
Put your napkins in your laps and eat up.
Yeah, I'm gonna start sleeping here. Masry & Vititoe, can I -- damn it. Does anyone know anything about these phones?
Hey, Ros. Nice view, huh?
In the conference --
Hey, Ros, where are they?
Yup. They must be important, too, cause they came on a special plane.
PG& -- Are you sure?
Some meeting. With PG&E people.
What's going on in there?
So did I.
Hey, Erin, I thought you were taking a sick day.
Hey, just so long as you see Him.
I'm a slow reader, on account of the fact that I look at the word "dog" and see "god".
You've been reading for hours.
Hi, Rosalind, this is Erin. Brockovich. From the file room? I was wondering if you could tell Mr. Masry that I'm following up on that real estate thing out of the office.
Masry & Vititoe, can I help you?
Cause her own mom's real sick, too.
How come her own mom isn't helping her?
Yeah. She is. But you know what? That's why I'm helping her. So she can get some medicine to make her feel better.
She's one of the sick people?
Oh, God, sweetheart, no. There's nothing on Earth I love more than you. Nothing. I promise.
You never fall short for the work people. I guess maybe you just love them more.
I never forget, honey. I try, real hard. It's just, for some reason, I don't seem to be able to organize things right and -- when it comes to you guys, I end up falling short.
You always say that. Then you go to work and forget you promised.
We'll work out the roller hockey thing, okay? Whatever you want, we'll work it out. I promise.
I'm gonna go live with George.
God damn it, Matthew. What the hell are you doing out here?
Well, God damn it, Matthew -- Randy's mom doesn't work eighteen-hour days, and Randy's dad didn't leave her, so figuring out who's gonna take who where is a little easier over at Randy's house.
Randy's mom said yes right away.
Can I play roller hockey?
Thank God we got you away from her, huh?
Well I hate it.
There's no way a son of mine hates Funky Town. It's impossible.
That's all you got, lady. Two wrong feet. In fucking ugly shoes.
Okay, look -- I think we got off on the wrong foot here --
Annabelle Daniels. 714-454-9346.
You don't know six hundreds plaintiffs' numbers by heart.
I said, <u>whose number do you need</u>?
Everyone's. This is a lawsuit. We need to be able to contact the plaintiffs.
Whose number do you need?
Erin. You don't even have phone numbers for some of them.
Don't talk to me like I'm an idiot, okay? I may not have a law degree, but I've spent 18 months on this case, and I know more about those plaintiffs than you ever will.
No offense. There are just some things we need that you probably didn't know to ask.
Excuse me -- Theresa, was it? There are no holes in my research.
Yeah, we had them couriered over. And listen, good work. They're a great start. We're just going to have to spend a little time filling in the holes in your research.
Hey -- those are my files --
I will. Bye.
Promise you'll turn around if you get tired.
We'll just be a minute. Get a little more sleep.
No, I need my car --
Real early. We're just gonna take your car to get some breakfast.
What time is it?
Yeah, but I'm gonna get better. A lot of these folks aren't.
You shouldn't be driving around, you know. You're sick.
You know me. I pick things up real fast.
Think you could learn?
Yeah, well -- good help is hard to find.
And I miss you.
I don't know. Few days. Thanks for helping me. I appreciate it.
How long's this whole thing gonna take?
Hunh-uh. Not yet. Look, don't take any of 'em on your bike, okay? Call a cab if you wanna go somewhere.
It's not for me; it's for my kids. You're the only one I trust them with.
I don't do favors for you anymore.
Hi. It's me. I got a favor to ask you.
Fine. I'll drop 'em off tomorrow afternoon.
They said that'd be tomorrow. They just wanna keep an eye on me another night.
I pretty much knew what your answer was gonna be.
You already packed up your stuff?
I need it.
More than you need me.
I can't. Look -- this job -- it's the best thing that ever happened to me. I mean it. For the first time in my life, I got people respecting me. Up in Hinkley, I walk into a room and everyone shuts up just to hear what I got to say. I never had that. Ever. Don't ask me to give it up. I need it.
Yeah, you can. You could just quit. People do it all the time.
I can't leave my job, George.
I know. But still. Six months. I think you oughta either find a different job or a different boyfriend. Cause there may be men who don't mind being the maid and getting nothing in return, but I'm sure as shit not one of 'em.
I'm sorry. I'm just working so hard --
It's a pair of earrings. I saw 'em in the mall one day, and I thought, damn, those would look good on those beautiful earlobes. So I bought 'em. And I said to myself, next time Erin says something nice, does something nice, I'll surprise her with 'em. Know how long ago that was? Six months. In six months, you haven't said one nice thing to me. That's a long time.
What's going on? What are you doing?
Bull<u>shit</u>, Erin. Bullshit.
That is not what I'm --
Fuck you. Just cause I don't spend all day trying to prove what hot shit I am --
What do you want to talk about instead? <u>Your</u> day? That's a fascinating subject.
It wouldn't kill you to talk about something other than yourself and your own fucking job once in a while --
No, I wanna say hi.
Lock the door.
Cause it's my office party. If you had an office, I'd go to your party.
I'm just saying -- we have one night to ourselves, why do we have to spend it here?
Just a few more minutes, then we can go. Take her, will you?
I'm bored, and so are the kids.
Yeah. We were sitting around at lunch and she pointed at a ball and said, "ball."
What? Beth? My Beth?
Well, come to think of it, we did have a big event around here. Beth started talking.
No, no jokes, I gotta pee. Just tell me about your day. What went on back there?
What do you want, a joke?
I'm so tired I'm about to drive off the road. Keep me awake, willya?
I know what they can sleep through, Erin. I probably know it better than you.
Keep your voice down.
Cause I can get a job. I will. And you can start leaving the kids with the chicken fat lady again. Would that make you happy?
I didn't say that.
If you got a problem with me taking care of your kids instead of getting some job, just say so.
You mind telling me what that's supposed to mean?
How would you know?
It doesn't have to be this complicated, Erin. There's a lot of jobs out there.
No, see -- that's exactly what those arrogant PG&E fucks want me to think -- that because they got all this money and power, we don't stand a chance in hell against them. But you know what? They're wrong.
Look, don't take this the wrong way, but don't you think you might be out of your league here?
I'm not in danger. I have a dead bolt. Remember?
Come on, Erin. A job's supposed to pay your bills, not put you in danger.
I'm not gonna quit cause of one creepy phone call, George.
I know what you're saying, and I don't wanna hear it. I am doing the best I can.
I'm just saying --
Well, hell, I guess that's it, then, huh? They're scarred for life. They're gonna start holding up 7-11's any day now.
One toy per kid is doing something nice. Four is ... something else.
George, I am just trying to do something nice for my kids on my one day off. Could you please not give me a hard time about it?
You're someone to me. You're someone real special to me.
No I'm not. Look at me. I'm not.
You are someone.
Well, I'm sure as hell not what I thought I was gonna be. I was supposed to have one of those great lives, with everything all laid- out and perfect. I mean, hell -- I was Miss Wichita, for God's sakes. Did I tell you that? You live next door to a real live beauty queen. I still got the tiara. I kept it cause I thought it meant something. I thought it meant I was gonna do something great with my life. I thought it proved I was gonna grow up to be someone.
You're not nothing, Erin.
Doesn't matter. Doesn't make one bit of difference. Oh God, George, how'd this happen to me? How'd I end up so ... so <u>nothing</u>?
What? But you been working so hard --
I <u>can't</u> call an exterminator. I can't afford one. God, I can't even afford my <u>phone</u>. I got fired.
It's a simple thing. Everybody gets them. All we gotta do is call an exterminator.
What kind of person lives like this? Huh? What kind of person lets her kids run around in a house crawling with bugs the size of housecats?
I'm gonna clean it up.
Fixing a leak under your sink.
What are you doing here?
What do you mean?
You think it could make you sick, living in a place like this?
I guess we get what we pay for, huh?
Thanks for reminding me.
I'm gonna put a dead bolt on your front door, too. This isn't exactly the safest neighborhood in the world, you know.
Better safe than sorry.
What're you doing?
Yeah, we'll just see about that, won't we?
This isn't gonna get you laid, you know.
Yup. Usually working on my bike. No big deal. If it doesn't work out, you can send 'em back to the chicken fat lady.
You're around every afternoon?
Cause I like kids. I like hanging out with them.
Why in the hell would you want to watch my kids?
Then lemme remind you, the polite thing is to say, thank you, that's a real nice offer, I don't mind taking you up on it.
It's been a while. Maybe I'm just out of practice.
Are you this hard on everyone who tries to help you?
I hope that's not supposed to impress me.
I do construction, which pays real good. And I make it last by living cheap.
Yeah? And what do you do the rest of the time, live off your trust fund?
I'm not a deadbeat. I work when I need to.
Great. Another deadbeat.
I was serious before, you know. If you need someone to keep an eye on them -- after school or something -- I don't have a job now, so I'm around in the afternoons.
I'm never here. I gotta leave 'em with this weird sitter all afternoon who costs a fortune and smells like chicken fat.
Yeah. I'm probably ruining them.
Yeah, and whose fault is that?
Cause I don't even know you.
I'm not gonna leave my kids with you.
You need help with your kids? I could probably do that.
I had a good neighbor, George. She was 60 and Mexican and she watched my kids for free. Something tells me you're not gonna be able to measure up to that.
Return 'em. Maybe you'll get your money back.
C'mon. I bought 'em for you, to make up for that night.
Yeah. Sexy, huh? And here's another: five. That's how old my other daughter is. Seven is my son's age. Two is how many times I been married and divorced. You getting all this? 16 is the number of dollars in my bank account. 454-3943 is my phone number. And with all the other numbers I gave you, I'm guessing zero is the number of times you're gonna call it.
You got a little girl?
Sure. That's one of my numbers. It's how many months old my little girl is.
Shit, yeah. I got numbers coming out of my ears. Like, for instance, ten.
You got more than one?
Which number do you want, George?
You want my number?
Now, don't be like that. Tell you what. How about if I take you out on a date to apologize for my rudeness?
Just think of me as the person next door who likes it quiet, and we'll get along fine.
Ooh, now, see, if I'da known there was a beautiful woman next door, I'da done this different. Let's start over. My name's George. What's yours?
Well, I'm the neighbors. There, now we're introduced, so you can shut the fuck up.
Just introducing myself to the neighbors.
What the hell do you think you're doing, making all that Goddamn noise?
Well, hello to you, darlin'.
A lot. But you hang in there, maybe you'll get one.
I thought if I could spend that kinda money on a car, it'd mean everything else was fine. I don't even know how much they cost.
Jaguar's a darn pretty car.
Know what I always thought I wanted outta life, Erin? A Jaguar.
I'm real sorry, Laura.
It's just -- the pain. It's only getting worse. I can't be a good wife. I can't be a good mother.
That's okay. I understand.
You're clever. I'm sure you'll think of something.
Now how'm I supposed to do that when I'm not in here most mornings and nights?
I moved payroll onto the computer. It only knows to process paychecks for employees who log on in the morning and off at night.
Have you been logging on?
Where's my paycheck?
I am not talking to you, bitch.
Yes. It's called accountability.
What am I supposed to do, check in every two seconds?
There may be jobs where you can disappear for days at a time, but this isn't one of them. Here, if you don't do the work, you don't get to stay.
What's going on?
-- toothbrush, toothpaste, and a pair of hose. Here.
I had photos of my kids, plus a mug --
Nice to see you, Erin. We've missed you.
Someone stole my stuff.
What do I look like, Erin? A library?
I mean, it's not a problem or anything, but -- I'm just a little unclear on what those things are. I thought maybe you'd know.
Well, this old neighbor of mine, Bob Linwood -- he ran the dairy on Community -- seemed like someone in his family always had a rash somewhere or other. I just figured it was something in the genes. And you know how it is -- you don't like to ask about things like that ...
You know that thing it says in here about rashes?
I'm surprised Donna didn't say anything.
I know. It's an awful lot.
There's something else, too.
It sure could, yeah. Thanks a lot.
When Donna told us about you, and what you told her about the chromium, we figured that might have something to do with this, too.
Yeah. Who are you?
Excuse me, are you Erin Brockovich?
I know. But it's good for me. Now I can help my daughter take care of my grandkids. And it's good for you, too. Now you have money, you can find a good babysitter, huh? Not the old lady next door.
Wow, that's soon --
You're moving away? When?
My daughter, she's bought a big house with a room for me. I'm going to move in with her.
Ai, bueno. Because I didn't want to tell you before, with your worries --
It'll be fine, yeah.
Outside with the sprinkler. So it's good?
Hi, sweetie. Were you a good girl? Where are Matt and Katie?
Don't go telling anyone. It'll ruin my reputation.
I gotta say, Erin -- first time I saw you, I did not peg you as the kind to go off and conduct her own epidemiological study.
Well, if you're talking about contamination, you're getting out of my area of expertise. Let me give you the name of a toxicologist friend of mine over at USC.
Uh-huh. Spent the last few days knocking on doors. And you know what? They're not. I mean, they got problems, but none of this cancer stuff. And their pets are fine. So I don't know -- I just can't shake the feeling that it wasn't no multivitamin they put in the water.
... and when I realized our area's just as bad as Hinkley, I thought maybe my neighbors are all sick too. So I went and asked.
Well, from what this stuff says, I'd say they both have some form of cancer.
Their parents, I'm pretty sure.
They've both got some immune system problem. Can't say what from, whether it's viral or genetic or what, but something's wrong. And these guys -- Donna and Peter --
Right, I guess those are the kids --
Well, look, there isn't a ton of information here, but from what there is, I'd say that these two people here -- what are their names? Shanna and Ashley?
Of course! Oh, gosh, of course --
No one put me up to anything. I was just hoping I could ask you a couple questions.
He did, didn't he? <u>Baxter</u>!
Is this a joke? Did Baxter put you up to this?
Hi, I'm Erin Brockovich. I was just over in the library there, asking a mess of questions about -- I guess they call it epidemiology? -- and the fella there told me to find you, cause you know all about it.
And code the signal to my private chamber.
Yes, My Lord.
Move this ship out of the asteroid field and into a position where we can send a clear transmission.
Yes, he commands you make contact with him ....
It was .... the Emperor ....
Yes, My Lord. We'll find them.
Alert all commands. Calculate every possible destination along their last known trajectory and disburse the fleet to search for them. Don't fail me again, Admiral, I've had quite enough!
Lord Vader, our ships have completed their scan of the area and found nothing. The Millennium Falcon definitely went into lightspeed. It's probably on the other side of the galaxy by now.
Yes, Admiral .... soon.
Soon, Lord Vader.
Asteroids don't concern me, Admiral. I want that ship, not excuses. How long until you can have Skywalker and the others in the Millennium Falcon before me?
Our pursuit ships have sighted the Millennium Falcon, My Lord. It has entered an asteroid field.
Come in, Admiral.
No ... there is another.
The boy is our last hope.
Told you, I did. Reckless is he ... Now things are going to worse.
Strong is Vader. Clouded is your fate. Mind what you have learned ... Notice everything, everything! It can save you.
Luke, use The Force only for knowledge and for defense, not as a weapon. Don't give in to hate or anger or fear ... they lead the way to the dark side ... Luke nods and climbs back into his ship.
You are the last Jedi, Luke. You are our only hope. Be patient.
Stopped they must be. Do you hear? On this all depends.
We've come this far ... He is our only hope.
Will he finish what he begins?
He's too old. Yes. Too old to start the training.
This one I have watched a long time. All his life has he looked away ... to the horizon, to the sky, to the future. Never his mind on where he was, on what he was doing. Adventure, excitement ... A Jedi craves not these things!
He can do it.
We've discussed this before.
Much anger in him, like in his father.
He will learn patience.
Only a fully trained Jedi Knight, with The Force as his ally, will conquer Vader and his Emperor. If you end your training now, if you choose the quick and easy path ... as Vader did ... you will become an agent of evil ... and the galaxy will be plunged deeper into the abyss of hate, despair and pain that you feel your friends suffering now.
Luke, I will not lose you to the Emperor, as I lost Vader.
And that is why I must go.
Will you? You underestimate The Emperor. It is you he wants ... that is why your friends suffer.
But you cannot control it. This is a dangerous time for you, Luke. You are now most susceptible to the temptations of the dark side.
I feel The Force.
You're not ready yet. You still have much to learn.
I can help them!
You don't know that. Even I cannot see their fate.
But Han and Leia will surely die.
... Luke, you must not go.
Luke ... you are the only hope.
Ben ... Ben ...
You must go to the Dagobah System ... There you will learn from one who taught me: Yoda, the Jedi Master.
I'm cold ... so cold ...
You must survive, Luke.
You must. Luke, look at me!
I can't ...
We're not out of this yet.
Turns on Lando, the newcomer, with an ominous growl.
Barks an argument and shakes his head.
Three patrol ships are heading our way.
What's wrong with him?
Barks a blue streak.
Everyone's invited, of course.
Barks at the mention of food. Licks his lips.
Growls a reserved greeting.
How you doing, Chewbacca? Still wasting your time with this clown, eh?
I'm sure I'll see you again, too. Keep well. You'd better chain him until it's over.
Barks a doleful farewell.
No, I'm alright. I'm alright.
Barks his concern.
Not now, Chewie. Lando, aren't you afraid the Empire might discover this little operation and shut you down?
Barks at Han.
Why don't we just turn him over to Lando to fix?
Howls and shrugs his shoulders.
That was a long time ago. I'm sure he's forgotten all about it, and so should you.
Barks and growls at his boss.
Well, it's been awhile.
Barks his agreement.
Okay, Chewie, it's now or never.
Chewie, head for the bottom of the city.
Barks his consternation.
... the power?
Barks his right on!
I don't care. It would've been worth it .... for Han.
Barks his agreement.
We should have stayed and finished them off.
Barks at his master.
How could you know my father? You don't even know who I am. Can't we get on with this already?
Oh, your father ... a powerful Jedi was he, powerful Jedi.
Because of my father, I guess.
Not far, not far. Be patient. Soon you will see him. Why wish you become a Jedi?
Will it take long to get there? How far away is he?
It's the Jedi's time to eat, too.
Look, it smells good. I'm sure it's delicious But I don't know why we can't see Yoda now.
Patience. It's time to eat.
... I told you, I'm not hungry.
Of course, yes. But now eat we must. Good food, I have good food. Come, come.
You know the Jedi Master?
Oh, a Jedi Master. Different altogether. Yoda you seek, Yoda.
I'm not looking for a friend. I'm looking for a Jedi Master.
No, no! I'll stay and help you find your friend.
Okay, Artoo, let him have it. Now get out of here, little fellow, we've got things to do.
Mudhole? Slimy? My home this is.
I don't want your help. I want my lamp back. I'll need it in this slimy mudhole.
Mine! Mine! Or I'll help you not.
Give me that!
Can't get your ship out? Have you tried? Have you tried?
Listen, friend, we didn't mean to land here, and if I could get my fighter out of this puddle I would, but I can't. So ...
A great warrior? Not many on those. Wars don't make one great.
I'm looking for a great warrior.
Help you I can ... yes ... yes.
Looking? Looking? You've found someone I'd say. Heh? Yes!
I'm looking for someone.
Away put your weapon. I mean you no harm.
... Like we're being watched.
Then I'll see you in Hell.
The night storms will start before you can reach the first marker.
You bet it is ... and Luke's out in it.
The temperature is dropping too fast.
We'll have to go out on Tauntauns.
We haven't got them adapted to this cold yet ...
Not likely! Where are the speeders?
Commander Skywalker hasn't come through the south entrance, sir. Maybe he slipped by without checking in.
Probably isn't good enough, Sergeant. Check on it!
I haven't seen him. He probably came in through the south entrance.
Sergeant, is Commander Skywalker back yet?
He will join us or die, My Master.
Yes ... yes. That would be a great asset.
But, if he could be turned, he would be a powerful ally.
You are weak! I have seen it. The Force is strong with him. He must be destroyed.
He's not a Jedi, he's just a boy. Obi-wan could not have taught him so much that ...
The son of Skywalker. You must destroy him ... or he will be our undoing.
Our destruction? Who?
Our situation is most precarious. We have a new enemy who could bring about our destruction.
I have felt it.
There is a grave disturbance in The Force.
What is thy bidding, My Master?
Fine. But they'll have to take care of themselves.
Wait. I'll send a patrol with you.
Whatever it is, it isn't friendly. I'm going to have a look. Come on, Chewie.
I understand. A death mark is not an easy thing to live with ... Until our paths cross again, may the force be with you.
Thank you, General. But there's a price on my head. If I don't pay off Jabba the Hutt, I'm a walking dead man.
You're an extraordinary fighter. I hate to lose you.
The Empire won't look for you out here. I'd say you're all set ... which means it's time for me to get going.
With all the meteor activity in this system, it's going to be difficult to spot approaching ships.
He's checking out a meteorite that hit near him. He'll be in soon.
Good, and Commander Skywalker?
There isn't a hint of life in the area. But all the perimeter markers are set, so you'll know if anyone comes calling.
Captain Solo. What's the situation?
Good. Soon as we're clear, we'll kick this baby into hyperdrive.
I can see the edge of the asteroid field, sir.
Not collapsing, honey. It's closing! This is no cave ...
We're doomed. Goodbye, Mistress Leia. Goodbye, Captain ...
I'm going to see what it is.
It sounds like it's trying to get in.
I must admit there are times I don't understand human behavior.
You, too, golden rod.
Sir, I'm almost afraid to ask, but does shutting down all but emergency power systems include me?
What are you so grouchy about?
We're in trouble!
If I may say so, Sir, I noticed earlier that the entire main para- light system seems to be damaged.
I think we're in trouble.
It can wait.
Sit down, and shut up!
Sir, I was wondering ...
The energy shield is down. We'll be stuck here forever.
Transport XJ. get out of here. Go!
The kid ran into something mean, and it wasn't the cold.
I do hope he's all there ... if you take my meaning. I would hate to see Master Luke develop a short circuit ...
He doesn't make sense to me either, Chewie.
Go tell your precious Princess ... Luke is dead unless he shows up soon.
I don't know, Artoo. Sir, might I inquire what's going on?
She is looking for Master Luke, and assumed he would be here with you. No one seems to know ...
I shut it off. What's her royal holiness want?
Mistress Leia has been trying to reach you on the communicator, but either you have it turned off, or it is malfunctioning ... if it's damaged, Artoo, could fix it, if you like.
What is it?
Captain Solo, sir. Might I have a word with you?
... just remember that, cause I'll be back ...
... I love you. I couldn't tell you before, but it's true.
Me either. They had me howling on the scan grid, but they never asked me any questions.
I'm worried about all of us. I can't figure out what they're up to.
I was worried about you.
Look, sweetheart, I'm not going to have you accusing my friend of ...
Chewie, do you think you can repair him?
Well, I do trust him. Lando's an old friend. Must have been an accident.
Something's wrong here. Your friend Lando is very charming, but I don't trust him.
He found him in a junk pile ...
Luke! I'm sure he's fine. Probably sitting around wondering what we're doing right now.
I hope Luke made it to the fleet all right.
Huh? Oh. Your droid's been gone too long just to be lost. He may have gotten into some trouble. Chewie went to look for him. Come over here. I want to check this out.
Has Threepio turned up yet?
You look great.
You look silly.
What are you staring at?
It'll be all right. Trust me. And keep your eyes open. You wait here.
I don't like this.
Let er go, Chewie.
You do have your moments ... Not many, but you do have them.
No. But he has no love for the Empire, that much I know ...
Can you trust him?
A Tibanna gas mine. Lando won it in a sabacc match, or so he claims. Lando and I go way back.
A mining colony.
Lando's not a system, he's a man. A gambler, con-artist ... all- around scoundrel ... ... your kind of guy. The system is called Bespin. It's a ways from here, but reachable.
Never heard of that system.
Well, sometimes ... Ah-hah, I knew it! Lando Calrissian.
You keep logs? My, how organized.
Funny, I have the feeling I've been in this area before. Let me check my logs.
Here ... near the Anoat system.
That depends. Where are we?
Then we have to find a safe port around here. Got any ideas?
Not bad, hot shot, not bad. Then what?
The fleet is finally breaking up. I'm hoping they'll follow standard Imperial procedure and dump their garbage before they go into light speed.
What'd you have in mind for your next move?
Chewie, check the manual release on the landing claws.
I'm still not sure what you've accomplished.
Oh, so sorry! Didn't mean to offend your droid. You think braking and shutting down in that amount of time is easy?
You could have warned him before you shut him off.
You're going to attack them?!!!
Sharp bank, Chewie. Let's turn this bucket around. You heard me, turn around! Full power on the front shield.
It's not my fault. I can't under- stand it!
Couldn't be, I checked the transfer circuits, just like you said! I tell you this time it's not my fault. I'm sure I checked it.
The entrance is collapsing!
I see it Chewie, hang on.
But the tremors have stopped.
Strap yourself in, sweetheart, we're taking off!
Those Star Destroyers will spot us long before you can get into light speed. You can't make the jump in this asteroid field.
There will be more of them. They always travel in groups. And there's nothing they like better than to attach themselves to ships. Just what we need right now.
Looks like some kind of Mynock.
Look, we just got this bucket going again. I'm not about to let some varmint tear it apart ...
Are you crazy!
Outside, in the cave.
There's something out there!
Try and control this ...
I do not!
You mean a man you can control.
There's nothing dull about a man I can depend on to be civilized.
Sure, they're safer. You always know what they're going to do. Trouble is, it gets a little dull.
Don't count on it. I happen to like nice men.
Afraid of? Certainly not you Captain Solo ... or any other man in this galaxy.
What are you afraid of?
That's quite a compliment.
Sometimes, maybe ... occasionally, when you aren't acting like a scoundrel.
You could be a touch warmer, though. Admit it, against your better judgment you think I'm all right.
Yes, you do.
Sure. I guess I make it difficult sometimes.
Would you please stop calling me that?
Easy, your worship. Only trying to help.
Where have I heard that before?
They're just trying to see if they can stir something up ... we're safe.
They're moving away.
Felt like a hydro concussion ... an Imperial Cruiser.
That was no earthquake.
Fine with me. But I'm afraid you'll have to let go.
I don't expect anything, except to be left alone.
Well, I hope you don't expect more.
Sorry, Captain, being held by you isn't enough to get me excited.
How do I look?
You don't look angry.
Very funny. You can let go now .... I'm getting angry.
Why, Princess, this is so sudden.
That should do nicely.
What is it?
There, there. Chewie get a reading on that. Looks pretty good.
Right. I'm going to get in closer to one of these big ones ...
Now you're making sense.
We've got to get out of this shower.
I'm against that.
But we're going to get pulverized if we stay out here much longer.
That Star Destroyer is slowing down.
I take it back.
Well, you said you wanted to be there when I was wrong.
Aren't I? Hang on, sweetheart. We're gonna do some flyin'.
To get killed ... you're not seriously going into an asteroid field?
Let's hope so ... it's just the chance we need.
Probably an asteroid field ....
Asteroids! Chewie, bank left, let's find out where they're coming from ...
Or you ran into something ....
That was no laser blast .... some- thing hit us ....
I'm glad you said there was going to be no problem, or I'd be worried.
Two more Star Destroyers heading right at us.
I know, I know, I see them ... LEIA See what?
I'll be surprised if we ever start moving.
This baby's got a few surprises left in her.
This bucket of bolts is never going to get us past that blockade.
Don't worry, your holiness, I'll get her started.
Would it help if I got out and pushed?
Wait, don't open it ... that's one of the traps for the ice creatures.
Hey! Someone's still in here.
Who's scruffy-looking? I tell ya' sweetheart, I must've hit pretty close to the mark to get you hoppin' like this. Doesn't it look that way to you, Luke?
Why you low-down, stuck-up, half- witted, scruffy-looking nerf-herder.
Come on, your highness, are you telling me you haven't been thinking about that kiss?
You must have gone completely out of your feeble mind.
Ooops! I guess you haven't told Luke about that yet.
I don't know what he's talking about.
I had nothing to do with it. General Rieekan thinks it's dangerous for any ships to leave the system until we know where that probe came from.
Well, your worship, it looks like you arranged to keep me close by for a while longer.
Now don't panic. We don't know that.
An Imperial probe droid.
Droid of some kind. I didn't hit it that hard. It must have had a self-destruct ....
What was it?
.... I'm afraid there's not much left.
No kidding. If this snowball's got nasty natives, they could be anywhere.
Now all we've got to worry about is what attacked him.
Those creatures he keeps talking about ... we'd better double the security ... Han, I don't know how ...
Sure ... If I were interested. But I don't think it'd be much fun.
And you think you're the one to apply some heat?
Spare me please! Don't tell me about the Rebellion again. I've had it with your noble mission. All you let yourself think about is the Rebellion. The result is you're as cold as this planet.
We are fighting for a cause much ...
There's no accounting for taste. Believe me, you could use a good kiss. You've spent so much time doing your duty and giving orders you've never learned how to be a woman. It's a shame, because you've got all the makings for one. I could have helped you plenty in that department ... if you'd have let go for a minute. But it's too late now, sweetheart. Your big opportunity is flying out of here.
I'd just as soon kiss a wookiee.
Am I? I say you came running after me because you were afraid I was leaving you without even a kiss.
I respect you. You're a bold fighter, maybe not the brightest, but ... HAN No, your worship.. That's not what I'm talking about.
You want me to stay because of the way you feel about me.
And what are they, pray tell?
You probably don't. How could you? You're so terrified of your own emotions ...
Me? I don't know what you mean.
Han, we need you here.
He'll know when he gets back ... Don't give me that look. Every day more bounty hunters are searching for me. If I don't pay off Jabba soon, there'll be too many to stop ... Remotes, Gank killers, and who knows what else. I've got to get that price off my head while I still have a head.
Does Luke know?
That bounty hunter we ran into on Ord Mantell changed my mind.
You said you were going to stay. What happened?
Yes, Your Highness?
Don't worry. You haven't seen the last of us.
I hope you make your peace with Jabba.
Now don't get the wrong idea, pal. She was just trying to express her true feelings for me.
That makes a good story. But I think you just can't bear to let me out of your sight.
Probe? What probe?
That's two you owe me, junior.
Thanks to you.
Hi kid, you look strong enough to wrestle a Gundark.
I'll see you shortly. A meteorite just hit the ground near here and I want to check it out .. Won't be long.
There isn't enough life on this ice cube to fill a space cruiser. My sentry markers are placed. I'm heading back to the base.
I've finished my circle and I haven't picked up any life read- ings.
Loud and clear, kid. What's up?
Yeah, you're a real hero.
Don't shoot! I've done what I can for you. I'm sorry it's not better, but I've got my own problems. I've already stuck my neck out further than I should ...
Don't ask me, but he's on his way.
All this just to get the kid? What's so important about him?
Luke? I don't get it.
He doesn't want you at all. He's after someone named Skywalker.
You don't know much about much if you think Vader won't want us dead before this is over.
Vader agreed to turn Leia and Chewie over to me. They'll have to stay here, but at least they'll be safe.
This ought to be good.
Shut up a minute and listen. I'm doing what I can to make this easier for you.
Get out of here, Lando!
I'm sorry too.
Sorry friend, I had no choice. They arrived right before you did.
Nothing. I never would have guessed that underneath that wild schemer I knew was a respon- sible leader and businessman ... But you wear it well.
Not as well as I'd like. We're a small outpost and not very self- sufficient. I've had supply problems of every kind and ... What's so funny?
How's your mining operation going?
I'll have my people get to work on it right away. Hate the thought of the Millennium Falcon without her heart.
That ship saved my life a few times. It's the fastest hunk of machinery in the galaxy. What's wrong with her?
What have you done to my ship?
That won't be easy, my friend ... What brings you here, anyway?
I always said you were a gentleman.
Are you kidding?
No hard feelings?
Why you slimy, double-crossing no-good swindler ... am I glad to see you.
I'm altering the bargain. Pray I don't alter it any further.
That wasn't the bargain. You said the Empire wouldn't interfere in--
Take them, but I'm keeping a detachment of troops here to watch over them.
I'll take what's mine now.
I think not. But I don't wish my prize to be damaged. We'll test it first. Bring in Captain Solo.
We only use this chamber for carbon freezing. If you put him in there, it'll kill him.
Good. It would be most unfortunate if I had to leave a permanent garrison here.
I forget nothing, Calrissian. Perhaps you think you're being treated unfairly.
That was never mentioned. Neither was this bounty hunter taking Han. I hope you haven't forgotten our bargain.
You will find them well enough. But they must never again leave this city.
What about Leia and the Wookiee?
That sounds familiar.
I'm sure my men fixed it. We've got nothing to worry about.
Are the coordinates set?
The deflector shields are gone.
It's Luke. Get under him. Slow down. Easy Chewie. Line up your tracking system. Lando, open the hatch.
Wait a minute. We're not going back there.
No argument, just do it. That's a command!
Luke needs help. We must go back.
I knew that set-up was too good to last .... I'm going to miss it.
I didn't say anything?
What'd you say?
His fate is sealed. You'll be lucky to get out yourself. All systems are on alert. everything's locked.
We've got to find Luke.
Don't worry about a thing. I'll get us going.
You'd better know what you're doing, or this is going to get very messy.
What chance have we got in here? What are we going to do when they cut ...
Sure I did ... once. It turned out lousy.
You've probably never done an honorable thing in your life.
Very noble. Not smart, but noble.
There's not much chance, but the bounty hunter's ship is on the East Landing Platform.
Chewie's right. We must try to save Han.
This is no time to be choosy, honey. What do you say we debate this later? There's still a chance I can get you out of here.
We have no use for your kind.
Look, I stand to lose everything by this.
And when do you betray us again?
I'm coming over to your side, that's what. And I have a feeling I'm making a big mistake.
What's going on?
... we're the bait.
Lord Vader has set a trap for him and ...
I didn't know you had a price on your head. Vader has given you to the bounty hunter.
What about Han?
Yes, we keep pollution down by having the power reactor far below the city. It's connected by a transfer shaft.
It's a lovely outpost.
Not actually .... Our operation is small enough not to be noticed, so you might say we're enterprisers. Most of our trade is, well ... unofficial.
You're part of the mining guild then?
.... We are a free station and do not fall under the jurisdiction of the Empire.
Would you care to join me for a little refreshment?
I must say, your beauty is unpar- alleled. Truly you belong here with us among the clouds.
Sorry, am I interrupting anything?
You may call me Leia.
Hello! What have we here? Welcome, I am Baron Lando Calrissian, Administrator of this facility ... and who might you be?
We have no choice. Send them up ... and start clearing everyone out.
Two transports at a time is awfully risky.
What is it?
We've picked up something outside the base in zone one, moving East.
Not yet. They're working on it now.
Have they analyzed the one that was killed?
Slim, but yes, there's a chance. They have a shelter. It's not much, but ...
Is there any chance of them surviving out there?
The speeders should be ready in the morning. They'll make the search easier.
Nothing more can be done tonight. The shield doors must be closed. I can't wait any longer. I'm sorry.
Artoo, you did it! I never doubted you for a second ...
I thought you knew this person.
Rather touchy, aren't they.
Well, what now?
Sir, we've lost the rear deflector shield. One more direct hit on the back quarter and we're done for.
Oh my, no!
Sir, it's very possible this asteroid is not stable.
If I might remind you, sir, the probability of successfully navi- gating through an asteroid field is approximately 365,000 to one ... a graceful surrender might not be ...
You don't have to do this to impress me.
I'll be back later.
So much has happened during the period of your indisposition, sir.
You rest now.
I've never seen it fail.
This hyperdrive had better work.
Lando, is he alright? ... Lando? Are you there? How's Luke?
Luke, no! It's a trap.
Snow creatures ... they're here?!
I could get more loyalty if I went down the hall and recruited some of those snow creatures.
Jabba the Hutt?
He wants to pay off that criminal he's in hock to.
Calm down, will ya? Tell me about Han.
First Han, now you. When am I going to learn not to count on anyone but myself? ...
What are you talking about?
That's just great. Why doesn't everyone just take off?
I have this ... feeling. I'm not sure, really ...
Where are you going?
What did you say?!
Leia ... What would you think if I went away for a while?
Me too. I was afraid.
I'm fine. Really. Leia ... when I was out there and it looked pretty bad ... well, it made me think about things.
The Bacta are growing well. The scars should be gone in a day or so. Does it still hurt?
If it must be. Yes.
And sacrifice Han and Leia?
I've learned so much since then. And I'll return to finish ... I promise that, master.
Yes, yes. To Obi-wan you listen young one. The tree. Remember your failure at the tree! Heh?
Foreknowledge is helpful, but painful sometimes and dangerous too. You have far to go in your training.
They're my friends.
Difficult to see. Always in motion is the future ... Back away, little machine!
Will they die?
It is the future you see.
I see them! ... They're in pain ... they're suffering.
Bespin. I see it too ... Friends you have there, heh? Concentrate and see them you will.
I see a city in the clouds.
Control, control you must learn of what you see. Not easy, not fast.
My mind fills with so many images.
Free your mind and return he will.
Only what you take with you.
What's in there?
This tree is strong with the dark side of The Force. A servant of evil it is. Into it you must go.
I feel cold.
Yes ... I also feel danger ... death. Something's not right.
Four this time! The Force you feel.
No! Nothing more will I tell you now. Clear your mind of questions ... Quiet now be ... at peace ...
But tell me why ...
You will know. When you are at peace ... calm ... passive. A Jedi uses The Force for knowledge and defense. Never for attack.
But how am I to know the good side from the dark?
No, no. Easier, quicker, more seductive.
Lord Vader ... Is the dark side stronger?
The dark side beckons. But if once start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny. Consume you it will ... as it did Obi-wan's apprentice.
Price? What do you mean?
Anger, fear, aggression! The dark side of The Force are they. Easily they flow ... quick to join you in a fight. Beware, beware, beware of them. A heavy price is paid for the power they bring.
But I feel The Force flowing!
No, no. This will not do. Anger is what you feel.
That would matter not were The Force flowing through you. Higher you'd jump! Faster you'd move! Open yourself to The Force you must.
They're a lot stronger than I'm used to.
That they are.
I thought those seekers were set for stun!
Concentration. Heh? Concentration.
That is why you fail.
I don't believe it.
Size has no meaning. It matters not. Look at me. Judge me by my size do you?
I can't. It's too big.
No. Try not. Do, do. Or do not. There is no try.
Okay. I'll give it a try.
No! No different! The differences are in your mind. Throw them out! No longer of use are they to you.
Master, moving rocks is one thing, but this is a little different.
Yes, but by what standard, ask I? Forget your old measures. Unlearn, heh, unlearn.
I thought I was in good shape.
It would be in seven pieces, were you a Jedi.
You will be, my young one. Heh. You will be.
I will not fail you. I'm not afraid.
You are reckless!
I have followed my feelings.
To become a Jedi takes the deepest commitment, the most serious mind.
Why not me?
Ready are you? What know you of ready? I have trained Jedi for 800 years. My own counsel I'll keep on who is to be trained.
There is no escape. You must join me or die. Don't make me destroy you here ... The Emperor is strong with The Force. But if you join me, together we could overthrow Him. Do not resist. It is our destiny!
No! .... Never ....
The Force runs strong in the Skywalker line. You will achieve great power ... Come, join with me! Together we will be the most powerful ... even stronger than The Emperor.
Time will tell.
All too easy. Perhaps you are not as strong as The Emperor thought.
That won't be necessary.
I'll die first.
There is much Obi-wan did not tell you. Come, The Emperor will complete your training.
Your future lies with us, Skywalker. Now you will embrace the dark side. Obi-wan knew this to be true.
And I too.
You'll find I'm full of surprises.
The fear does not reach you. You have learned more than I anticipated.
I want that ship.
It won't get through the blockade.
Anything on the Millennium Falcon?
Seventeen ships destroyed, we don't know how many got away.
Make ready to land General Veers' assault troops on the surface. Then deploy the fleet so that nothing can get off that system. You're in command now, Admiral Piett.
Yes, My Lord.
Yes, Sir .... we have visuals ... the System is supposed to be devoid of human forms ...
The Hoth System?
What d'you mean, pretending? They are dressing. Where'd they get those clothes?
They're...pretending to dress.
Excuse me. I didn't mean to disturb.... What am I saying?
They suggested oranges.
The Zoo tells me that chimpanzees, like all apes, are vegetarian, sir.
Me, too. Can't have a lot of monkeys making messes in the Guardhouse. Have we fed them? Like raw steak or something?
Yes, sir. We're in luck. The sick bay's almost empty except for a mauled fox cub, a deer with pneumonia, and a depressed gorilla. The Apes will be hidden from the public. They'll be quarantined. If they want medical attention, it's available on the spot. And the experts can start giving them the once-over first thing in the morning. General Brody's very pleased.
Did you call the Zoo?
That primitive apes can talk.
Nobody's going to believe it.
My name is Lewis -- Lewis Dixon .
My name is Cornelius. And this is Zira -- my wife.
Do you have a name?
We know that.
So am I. And I mean you no harm.
A display of primitive apparatus --
And we can watch ...
To a lot of psychiatric small talk --
I did not call her mad. I merely asked her if she was. And I repeat the question. Are you mad?
Dr. Milo, please don't call my wife mad.
Zira, are you mad?
And Earth will be destroyed -- just as we saw it. Only, since fleeing it, we have passed through a....backward disturbance in time -- did you notice the Date Meter clicking down after the shock wave hit our ship? -- and we have returned to Earth almost two thousand years before its destruction. That is another reason for keeping silence. Our human captors would not be edified to know that, one day, their world will crack like an egg and fry to a cinder, because of an Ape war of aggression.
But we saw Earth destroyed.
In some fashion -- and I lack the intellect to know precisely how -- we have traveled from Earth's future into Earth's past.
Keep him in cold storage till the reports in. Then send him to Taxidermy. He's a museum piece.
With particular emphasis on the cranial and oral areas.
We shall want a full autopsy ...
Yes, but don't take any chances.
They look pretty docile.
Go easy, Stevie.
Security. Join the Marines and see the Zoo ...
What are they doing here?
I don't believe it.
No -- clothes. Stevie, they changed into them.
There was a sort of carpetbag in the ship.
I like you.
May I say something personal?
I mean that in our 'primitive' civilization, apes just don't talk. I mean I think it's important that, when our 'primitive' security precautions are lifted, the first time you say something in public you should talk to what we 'primitively' call the Right People.
I'm a psychiatrist.
I should. I've been doing it half my life to Humans.
I mean he's of your race. He's an Ape. Look. You don't have to be afraid. We've put him in chains and under sedation. Do you understand that?
He's a gorilla.
But he isn't us. He's your own kind.
C'mon, Snake - it's L.A. Everything's phony, you know that.
You were injected with glucose. There is no Plutoxin 7 virus. You were never going to die - at least not from anything we gave you.
Plissken, slow down the sub. You're overloading the power plant.
His reactor's starting to overheat.
Some areas have power - they're on line to San Onofre.
Heavy Third World connections. They get weapons, drugs, fuel, choppers - everything is pumped into the island from the south.
L.A. is in a constant state of warfare. Gangs fighting for the right to rule.
It's a strain of the Plutoxin 7 virus. Genetically engineered. 100% pure death. Complete nervous system shutdown. You crash and bleed out like a stuck pig. Not a pretty sight.
The cigarette girl in New Vegas was an undercover cop. She injected you with incentive toxin. Right now it's swimming in your bloodstream. It'll start to take effect in 9 hours.
Utopia became depressed after her mother's suicide, began to withdraw into her virtual reality simulator. She'd punch up her own little world in cyberspace and stay in it for days at a time. Somebody else was in there with her.
Somehow during the tour, she came into possession of a prototype transmitting device. We don't know how.
Zero emotional developments. Total lack of compassion. A highly developed psychopathic instinct to survive.
Perfect for the mission. Nobody else can pull it off - not an army, not a man.
ComStat did a psychosearch on him. Used a database of 5 million sociopathic personalities. He hit the bottom of the curve.
Nobody leaves Cuervo Jones. Not unless you give your life. You fight till you're dead. Then I forgive you. Understand? Understand?
You're my woman, you understand? You don't let anybody take you away from me without a fight.
Go on now. Do as I say.
Are we going to eat soon? I'm starved.
Now go get dressed. We have things to do.
He doesn't look like his picture. I bet he's fake.
You never heard of Snake Plissken?
Cuervo, look out behind you!
You're stalling, Eddie. Talk, you little gringo!
It's so good to see you again.
I thought he was, but he came back.
You told me he was dead.
You're about to get hit, Cuervo. It's Plissken.
Sure, Cuervo, but look here. I've done it all, man. I killed Plissken, I got your girl back, I got it all. Just for you, Cuervo. Just for you.
You said I could be Vice-President, Cuervo. Your right-hand man.
Give it to me.
He jumped. Down there. He's dead, Cuervo. I did it. I killed Plissken.
Where is he?
Come on, Cuervo. I delivered him, didn't I? All I'm asking for is what you promised.
My name is Hershe Hernandez, do you understand, cowboy?
Where'd you get these rigs, Carjack?
You always were a loser, Plissken. Makin' things up as you go along. That's why I cut out on you in Cleveland. You're just a bum like the rest of us.
I'd like to get out but I don't have enough money.
Why should we leave? I love L.A. Where we gonna go? What's the payoff?
Cuervo Jones has more firepower than two armies. No one gets near him.
Wait a minute. All right. Hold on.
We have a little arrangement. Anything happens to me, you're dead.
I wouldn't be doin' that, Snake.
My name is no longer Carjack. Will you please get that through your fucking head?
No. The right skid's broken. If I try to set it down she'll crash. I have to stay in a hoverwhile you jump off. Hey, Carjack. We gotta hide the girl. Give her your dress.
Can you land?
I think we've burned off enough fuel. We may be lighter enough to hover. Just barely.
Somebody get off!
She's overloaded! We're too heavy.
If I'm late, Carjack, don't start without me.
See you in hell, Snake.
I don't know yet.
No, that sucks. How are we getting out?
You want to stay here, while Cuervo Jones rules the world?
I don't know, sounds thin to me.
We get the girl and the prototype. And we get out.
So what's the deal, gorgeous?
Say goodnight, Carjack.
Dream on, blue eye.
Get me to Cuervo Jones. Get me to the Kingdom. I got one hour.
I see your point. What's the favor?
I'm already dead.
I got a new deal for you.
All right, so I made another deal.
Don't lie to me.
I was called away on urgent business, Snake.
Wait a minute. I know that voice. You're Carjack Malone.
What's in it for me?
I need a favor.
The name's Plissken.
You're gonna have to learn to respect the law, Snake. The United States is a no- smoking nation. No smoking, no drinking, do drugs, no women unless you're married, no guns, no foul language. It's a brand new day for you, Snake.
Got a smoke?
Yeah, I got it.
Plissken - this is Malloy. Do you have the prototype?
It's history. I gotta go.
Where's the submarine? It's disappeared off our screens.
Hands on switches and counting. 5...4...3...2...1. Launch.
Nuclear turbine to 75% power.
Lock fuel rods.
She's in the green.
A medical team will be standing by.
By the way - who gives me the anti-toxin?
Let's just say it's what's best for the country.
So you want me to take her out? Is that an order from the President?
Cahuenga Pass. Make your way up through the mountains toward the Hollywood Bowl. You should be able to pick up Utopia's tracer there. Once you go inside, you're on your own. You know what you have to do with the girl, don't you? We have to spare this nation her trial - for treason.
Where do I put ashore?
All you need to know is get it back here by 5 a.m.
So what does this thing do?
Third World wants to live like we do - and they plan on taking what they want. The Cubans and Brazilians are ready to invade Miami. If the Africans and Colombians make a run at the border, we got a full scale attack on the United States.
There's a war about to be declared, or didn't you know?
Defense against what?
Only a handful of people are aware of its existence. Let's just say it's the ultimate defensive weapon.
I'll need to know more about this thing.
Call me Snake.
I guess we have a deal. Nice to be working with you, Plissken.
Get this crap out of me.
You don't understand. It's already in you.
Maybe. But you're not putting any shit in me this time.
Having second thoughts?
Wait a minute, what are you talkin' about?
Tell the President to adopt. I think I'll like L.A.
That's the deal.
So what's the deal, huh? Go into L.A., find the President's daughter, secure the box, and bring 'em both out - and I'm free?
That's right, big shot. Unless you do what we want you're not coming back.
And I don't need to know. So fuck you, I'm goin' to Hollywood.
Top secret. Only on a need to know.
What's the little black box do?
Shut up, Plissken.
You assholes didn't bring me here to give me this for 20 years of dedicated service. What'ya want?
How you doin' Plissken? You like the watch?
You're free, Plissken. But if you even so much as break wind on a country road I'll crush you like a bug.
Relax, war hero. We took you for a ride, and you came through. Not bad for a dirtbag like you.
Well, yeah. All you have to do is push the button.
Does he know how to activate it?
The prototype appears to be armed, Mr. President. Shall I begin evacuation?
So where's Plissken?
Getting ready to invade.
I give you my word. Put the prototype into my hands, and you're a free man.
It's the President, for Christ's sake!
Yeah. The place kept changing owners. Finally went bankrupt. That thing in Paris killed 'em.
Is that what I think it is?
If he lets you get close enough.
So maybe we can pull off a Texas switch on Cuervo.
I got an idea, Snake. This looks like the prototype, right?
Don't like it, don't come.
I don't know about this thing.
Bluebacks. I'm not bullshittin'. I swear to God.
Aw, come on, Snake.
I used to represent the guy who invented it. I swear to God, Snake. No bullshit.
How do you know all this?
Right. Keep goin' straight. Two blocks down, turn right.
Cease fire with the bullshit.
I couldn't help it, Snake. I had to shoot you. Cuervo made me do it, I swear to God, man.
Sure, Snake. No problem. You gonna kill me?
Listen up. I need directions. Downtown. Somebody named Hershe.
I could've helped you. We coulda made a deal with Cuervo. If you'd listen...
Oh, man... You didn't have to hit me, Snake. I can help you.
Where are they going?
Right over there.
Where is it?
All right. Anything for you, Snake. Although I was going to take you to Cuervo Jones' place.
I said pull over.
Stop the damn car.
Cuervo Jones' right-hand man. One tough hombre. You don't understand, Snake. Cuervo Jones wants to unify the island. We're on the move, man. Big time.
Too many people know where you're going, Snake. That's not good. Delgado and his men were back there waiting for you.
Cuervo's got a place near Venice, where the big birds fly. Nice digs, too. I've been there, y'know.
Who? You mean Cuervo Jones? He's the man with the juice, Snake. Got the President's daughter. Setting up a citywide truce. Big doings.
Where are they?
Man, I'd love to have your autograph, Snake.
Where'd they go?
You're a star in your own right, you know that? Hey, I'm Map To The Stars Eddie. How you doin'?
All the sewers are collapsed under Venice. You have to go topside. Right up there.
Yeah. So how do I get to Venice?
Say, you need anything, Snake? Guns? Explosives? I can get you a crate of hellfire grenades, no problem - five hours.
Good. I want you out. This is my sewer.
Looking to get out.
What're you doing in here?
Hershe. She lives downtown with Mojo Dellasandro in the big boat. Down that way.
You ain't doin' so good, Snake. You need help. You should talk to Hershe. She hates Cuervo. They used to be partners, but they split up.
Anaheim. Headquarters for everything. The whole town's gonna be there. Things changin' fast around here, Snake. It's not the same as the old days, man.
Long gone. You'll never catch up with him now, Snake.
Where's... Cuervo Jones...?
Could be a big one comin' any minute now...
Down that way.
Which way to the Hollywood Bowl?
Kind of a bad neighborhood, Snake.
Run, Snake...They're coming.
No! Stay away, Snake. He's mucho muerte.
Find Cuervo Jones.
What are you gonna do in Venice?
It's where they live. I guess after everything happened, they just needed to do what they'd always done before. During the daytime, they just pull down the shades on their windows and sleep.
I know that. There are people in some of these cars.
What the hell is this?
I changed my mind. I'm going with you, wherever you're going.
I don't know. Somehow, I just can't leave.
Why don't you get out of L.A.? Take a boat to China, take an airplane to Brazil? Earthquakes, death, shit. Why do you stay?
How the hell am I supposed to know? This is your damn city.
Snake - what is it?
Sewers. Come on.
How do we get out of here?
Be careful of the bald cats. They live in these buildings.
I just thought you wanted to get away. I didn't know you wanted to go someplace.
This is a dead end. You took us into a dead end!
Like hell I do.
You need help.
Don't follow me.
The Surgeon General of Beverly Hills.
Oh no, it's the Doctor.
No screamin' shit.
They live here, used to be like us. But after too many silicon implants, their muscles turned to jelly. The only way they survive is to have body parts transplanted over and over again. Snake, nobody who comes into Beverly Hills gets out alive.
What are they?
A little bit. But pretty soon I'm gonna be dead. So are you, Snake.
Are you crazy?
Hi, Snake. It's so great to meet you. My name's Taslima. I'm a fan of yours.
Give me the prototype.
Where's the anti-toxin...?
Get ready, shitheads. We're comin' in.
I've been doin' that all my life. Might as well do it in L.A. Everybody else there is.
You're running out of time.
Well, I'll think it over.
Utopia is lost to me. My daughter is gone.
I can see you're real concerned about your daughter.
Yeah? Greenbacks? I got ten million of them.
The President's promised to give whoever helps me 1 million dollars.
All of us?
Yeah. With me and Texas Mike O'Shay.
Hershe, you were in Cleveland?
You owe me. You left me holdin' everything back there in Cleveland.
I'm looking for somebody.
Hey, what's going down, Snake?
--By itself it is only a piece of steel. Its power comes from he who wields it. For now there is no one. Do as I have ordered!
My King, I couldn't do it. Excalibur cannot be lost. Other men--
...I saw nothing.
When you threw it in, what did you see?
--Take Excalibur. Find a pool of calm water and throw the sword into it.
There is one thing left to do... Excalibur... And you must do it, Perceval. Leave my wounds, I command you.
In the name of God, of St. Michael, and St. George, I make you a knight. Rise, Sir...
He heard Lady Guenevere's request and he said nothing. That is all.
Is he coming?
--It is the old wound, that has been opened. I have always known it would be the gateway to my death, for it has never healed. Let my heart do its job, my King, and pump me empty...
You are that and much more. You are its greatest knight, you are what is best in men. Now we will be together--
My salvation is to die a Knight of the Round Table.
Lancelot, I will save you... Don't die.
It is deep...
Hasn't Merlin mended your wound?
But one can still keep a sword sharp riding out in the name of the King's law.
They miss the battlefield. I think we do too.
Only give me leave to ride out again, to do what I am most able to do, and happiest doing.
Your deeds set an example for all other knights. For your gift, ask a gift of me.
I do. Rise, Lancelot, come with me.
These men repented before God for their evil deeds. Those who would not, met their fate at the end of my sword. Accept the fruit of my first quest as my wedding gift.
We spared the lives of a few, so they could sail home and tell their fellows what fate they met at the hands of King Arthur's knights...
Lancelot, how did you fare in the North?
And a great heart it is. Sir Lancelot, you will be my champion.
My domain is here, inside this metal skin. And I would pledge to you all that I still own: muscle, bone, blood and the heart that pumps it.
I gave up my castles and my lands!
But your life and lands are far from here.
Then make me your champion and I will always fight in your place.
You are still the best knight in Christiandom. You gained a hundred advantages over me. It is I who must love you, for through your courage and patience you taught me a bitter lesson.
I, the best knight in the world, bested! This is a great day, for my search is over. I love you, my King.
Thanks to God, you are alive.
It is you, sir, who knows not the virtue of humility, as a true king must.
So be it, to the death.
Sir, your rage has unbalanced you. It seems you would fight to the death against a knight who is not your enemy, for a length of road you can ride around.
I sought only not to harm you, sir.
Fight me from your horse or on foot, but fight me. Your avoidance mocks me.
I will not.
Yield. I have the advantage.
I will not. You must retreat or prove your kingship in the test of arms, under the eyes of God.
Not a boast, sir, but a curse. Never have I met my match in joust or duel.
--That is a wild boast. You lack a knight's humility.
I am Sir Lancelot of the Lake, from across the sea. I am the best knight in the whole of Christiandom, and I look for the king who is worthy of my sword's service.
I am King, and this is Excalibur, sword of kings from the dawn of time. Who are you, and why do you block the way?
I await the King himself. His knights are in need of training.
Move aside. This is the King's road, and the knights you joined arms against were his very own.
Good day to you, sir.
Lancelot?... It is Lancelot!
He can be no other.
I dreamed of him too... Merlin lives! He lives in our dreams now, in that dark and shadowy place that is as strong and real as this more solid one. He speaks to us from there.
Yes. He spoke to me. He said I would fight bravely tomorrow. I have never dreamed of Merlin before.
Merlin, will I live...? ...I was dreaming...
Ready my knights for battle; they will ride with their King once more. I have lived through others far too long! Lancelot carried my honor and Guenevere my guilt. My knights have fought my causes. Mordred carries my sins. Now, at last, I will rule.
Perceval, you have returned!
...Gawain and Perceval, Bors and Bohort, Caradoc and Ector, and all the others--lost to me. Only the echo of their voices remains in this empty hall. All I have left is the memory of their fellowship. Echoes and memories. I am a ghost of the King that once was... ...Mordred is real, alive, my own flesh and blood. I will see him, I must.
Don't recognize him. You were trapped by Morgana's sorcery.
Is this a dream? Tell me, Merlin!
--Stories... You brought me back. Your love brought me back. Back to where you are now, in the land of dreams...
Where have you been these many years? Is it true that Morgana--
But, I'm here.
It is like a tree. The roots of the stones spread out across the land and they draw on the thoughts and actions of men. Like sap those human matters course through the stones feeding the stars that are the leaves of the tree. And the stars whisper back to men the future course of events. But the earth is being torn apart, its metals stolen, and the balance is broken and the lines of power no longer converge. In fact, I nearly didn't make it in one piece.
What is this place, Merlin?
I know. I have heard noises and echoes through the stones...
Quiet. You'll wake the men, and they must fight tomorrow for their very lives.
I cannot. I must not. Here I must stay.
I must do it myself. I must kill them both. Lancelot and Guenevere. Will you ride with me, Merlin?
You betray the boy who drew the sword, the boy who saw the Dragon... the Dragon who moves close by, coiling and uncoiling, restless, looking down, waiting for the King to be a king...
Me? I have lived by the oath of king and knight.
My powers fade, Arthur. I resort to cheap tricks... Yes! I enjoy every moment of my foolishness, I join in the making of it, so no one can betray me. But you! You betray yourself.
With all your powers, you are content to be ridiculed, laughed at...
That is my destiny. I have a destiny, too...
I am alone and betrayed. By my wife, by my beloved friend, by my knights. And by you. Perhaps most of all by you. For you made me, you forged this wretched life. And like a child tired of a toy, you toss me aside, a babbling lecher trotting after my sister...
I didn't ask for poetry. Which is it?
What? The greatest? They blend together like the metals we mix to make a good sword.
A king should be afraid, always. The enemy is everywhere. Waiting in ambush in the dark corridors of his castle, on the deer paths of his forest, or in the gray and winding paths of a more tangled forest, in here.
Just yes? No mad laughter, no riddles, nothing but a simple yes? That frightens me.
What is it my child?
Merlin, tell me. Now that Guenevere is returned to me...
Never where you expect it, that's all I know.
Where hides evil, then, in my kingdom?
Good and evil; there is never one without the other.
Then answer me this. For years peace has reigned in the land. Crops grow in abundance, there is no want. Every one of my subjects enjoys his portion of happiness and justice, even those whose tiresome misunderstandings we must resolve here each day. Tell me, Merlin: have we defeated evil, as it seems?
At your service, sir.
...to ride out and meet them.
The knights of Galys approach the camp. It would be politic...
The Lady of the Lake. Take it. Take it, quickly!
Excalibur! Is it true?
You know full well there is, and I go to meet it now. Come witness my revenge.
Come now. So much anger for such a little crime? Are you sure there is nothing else troubling you?
So you were stealing their honey. They should have killed you.
I had to weave a little enchantment on the bees so I could get some honey, and I didn't feel up to using any more magic just yet. Anyway, I was in less danger than you'll be in today.
I should have left you to fend for yourself.
You're not listening. Your heart is not. Love is deaf as well as blind.
Guenevere. And a beloved friend who will betray you.
Who will it be? Put your mind to it, then.
There are maidens as fair, and fairer than Guenevere. If I put my mind to it, I could see them now, many of them, weeping for love of you, watching the hills for you coming from the high towers of their castles. Offering you their every favor. Rich, clever--but if it is to be Guenevere, so be it.
I love her. If she would be my queen, my dreams would be answered.
A king must marry, after all.
What's this, what's this?!
Then as knight to knight I can offer you mercy.
The dragon! There...
The book without pages. Open before you, all around us. You can see it in bits and pieces, for if mortal men were to see it whole and all complete in a single glance, why, it would burn him to cinders.
What book is that?
In the great book.
Because you must! You and only you. Have you forgotten that it was you who freed Excalibur?
It's just that I have no experience, and no men to speak of. How can I--
I must find the means to save him, then. I was hoping I could ask you for a little magic help, but if it makes you so tired...
Well there. You don't need me half as much as you think you do. You already know what must not happen.
Yes, yes, I know that. Everybody does. Lord Leondegrance is my only ally among the barons and the great knights. I can't lose him.
It is whispered in the forest that... ...Leondegrance's castle is under siege by Lot and Uryens.
'Help me, Help me.' Help me get up.
Merlin, help me. I need your help. I don't know how--
That's not why you came.
I want to thank you.
But not from your destiny.
You saved me from the arrow...
You are the son of King Uther, and the fair Igrayne... you are King Arthur.
Whose son am I?
Speak of the devil!...
Who is Merlin?
So be it.
I will muster a great force of knights, and I will return to fight for what is mine.
And I offer only this, Father. To commit with passion and pleasure all the evils that you failed to commit, as man and king.
I cannot offer you the land, only my love...
Your mother told you that?
The very spear that pierced the side of Christ as he died on the cross.
And you are the great King? The lords have rebelled. Invaders attack the coasts. Crops don't grow. There is nothing but plague and hunger in the land. Only I am feared. I will be king. You may have lost Excalibur, but I have found my own weapon of power. There.
I recognize you only as my son, no more.
I have come to claim what is mine, Father.
We fought and won battles, and now one man defeats all my knights? I will go.
He is the mightiest and fairest of knights.
I don't know. Merlin brought you to me when you were newly born and charged me to raise you as my own. At first, I did so because I feared Merlin, later because I loved you.
Who is, then?
I did, Father. I beg your forgiveness.
You freed it, son?
Sir... Kay needed a sword. His was stolen. I saw Excalibur, and... I took it.
Well hurry then, and get it.
I left it in the tent, sir.
I have kept it.
Forgive me, my wife, if you can. I was not born to live a man's life, but to be the stuff of future memory. The fellowship was a brief beginning, a fair time that cannot be forgotten; and because it will not be forgotten, that fair time may come again. Now once more I must ride with my knights to defend what was, and the dream of what could be.
I loved you much, as King, and sometimes as husband, but one cannot gaze too long at the sun in the sky.
And if he cannot be found, no other knight will champion me, though you beseeched each and every one of them. Why be king if there is no one you can call loyal subject but an eager boy?
The laws, my laws, must bind everyone, high and low, or they are not laws at all. Lancelot will come...
And you cannot love me...
If I am your judge, I cannot be your champion. When I act as your King, I cannot be your husband.
Why can't you be my champion?
Not you, my husband?
The Queen will be in my charge till a champion steps forward to fight on her behalf.
No. I meant not to be angry with you, Sir Gahalt. In the idleness that comes with peace gossip has bread its own evil. You merely repeat it. Please, sir, have one of those apples that Lancelot loves, and in that gesture partake of its goodness.
Sir Gahalt, answer the Queen.
Don't start a war on my wedding day!
I will ride with Sir Kay. Lancelot, rest here.
I grant you your wish if you grant Lady Guenevere hers.
He must stay for the feasting days of our wedding, and tell his deeds himself.
Quiet, or I'll sew up your mouth too.
No, I think it's better if you just stay here to heal. At least a week.
Well, then, I shall tell you which knights have maiden daughters, so you can avoid their castles.
I didn't know Leondegrance had a daughter.
--And damsels in besieged castles are waiting to be rescued?
But I have to leave tomorrow. The forests are thick with rebels, invaders plunder our shores...
--I'm pretty good at stitchery. I've sewn my father's wounds more than once.
It didn't hurt too much, did it?
You and the land are one. Drink from the chalice. You will be reborn and the land with you.
I am wasting away and I cannot die. And I cannot live.
Because you and the land are one.
I have waited long for you. Once you almost saw, but fear blinded you. Why am I served from the chalice?
You, my lord.
Who does it serve?
We are to blame.
The King without his sword, the land without a king...
He has given up.
Why didn't he kill us?
There are things about love--
Love demands it.
The law forbids it.
I cannot love as a woman the lady who will be wife to my King and my friend. And, in pledging my love to you, I cannot love any other woman.
To me? But why?
Yes. I would swear my love to you.
There is one.
And there is no maiden in the whole world who inspires you?
I am a fighting man and I am married to the quest. That is enough.
The well-kept secret is whether any of them has won your heart.
--It must wait, child. These good ladies, for whom I intervened once, will honor me with a meal. I am beholden to them now as I was when they begged my protection.
I have found you. The Queen. An apple. Tomorrow. Sir Gawain...
Twenty days!? The world is that big?
Listen, boy, it's more than twenty days from here.
I will run.
Very well. Climb up.
You're a man?! ...with metal skin!
Just a man. A knight in the King's service.
--I am the fog and mists that rise up from the sea, escaping...
--I am the sea, which covers the desert forever under its weight.
I am the desert, where water disappears--
I am the cloudburst that quenches the flames.
What's behind that beauty? A wizened, cold-hearted snake.
You provoke me, Merlin.
Walls of shining crystals, burning with red fire, furnishings of metals and jewels never seen by man...
What do you want? You must desire it for me to weave it.
I won't. You would misuse such power. I have paid enough for you, and I will have you.
Merlin, the powers of Summoning, the true Name of the charms of Doing and Undoing. Show me!
Flattery! Do you think I am ignorant of your stupid little games? Preying on you weakness of others. That's your power, a petty evil. Mine is great. Great plans. Impossible dreams. Laughable endings...
You are truly magnificent!
People make you laugh?
When Arthur built the castle, I carved out a place for myself, where I could laugh or sleep, and no one would bother me.
That I cannot.
You know what I want. I want the secret of true magic, how to thicken the stuff of dreams and wishes with the flesh of the world.
The deepest secrets, the forbidden formulas...
I showed you all my conjuring tricks...
Shh... yes, yes. Sit with me, please... Morgana.
A lovestruck page!
No. Yes, I am. I am jealous. I want to write poems about you with moonbeams, make the sea sing your name...
It's clear you are, and it irks me.
I'm not jealous!
No, no, of course not. You are young...
Can it truly be used for magic?
Is that Mandrake, Lord Merlin?
You left your husband's side? You left your brother's wedding?
They are not weapons, my friend, but truths. You betrayed the Duke, stole his wife and took his castle, now no one trusts you. Lot, Uryens, your allies will turn against you. Give me the child, Uther, I will protect him. Go back to your war tent.
You strike me with words as hard as steel.
Maybe not even that, Uther. I thought once that you were the one to unite the land under one sword. But it'll take another, a greater king...
To kill and be king, is that all?
It's not for you, Uther, hearth and home, wife and child.
You didn't ask!
The oath. You didn't say--
The child is mine, Uther. I have come for him.
Now you must pay me.
Doing what I did for you, it wasn't easy, you know. It takes it's toll. It took nine moons to get back my strength.
Merlin! Out of the sick sleep at last.
I swear it.
--What issues from your lust will be mine. Swear it again.
I swear it. By Excalibur and the holy--
Dumb riddles, Merlin. I am your King.
I have walked my way since the beginning of time. Sometimes I give, sometimes I take. It is mine to know which, and when.
One land, one king! That is my peace!
Behold the sword of power, Excalibur. Before Uther, it belonged to Lud, before Lud, to Beowulf, before Beowulf to Baldur the Good, before Baldur to Thor himself and that was when the world was young and there were more than seven colors in the rainbow. Speak the words.
Just show the sword.
I should butcher all and every one of them. Merlin, what is this wagging of tongues?
Talk. Lovers murmuring to each other...
It's done. A truce. We meet at the river.
Shall we summon the writer? He's in Paris I believe.
Well why are they tearing the building down?
Well what's wrong?
C'mon I can read for Christ sake.
Why it's perfectly plain, your the teacher at the college, you don't want the building torn down.
Burke take a look at this damn thing it just doesn't make sense.
Ten maybe twelve years ago, in Africa. The exorcism supposedly lasted for months. I heard it damn near killed him.
I didn't know that.
It must be alright. He's still running around digging up tombs. Besides, he's had experience.
Don't you think he's too old, though? How's his health?
No, he's working on another book.
What's he doing there? Teaching?
That's right Mike. But he's finished and came back around three ot four months ago, He's in Woodstock now.
Merrin? I had notion he was over in Iraq. I think I read he was working on a dig around Nineveh.
How about Lankaster Merrin.
And what about the exorcist? Any ideas?
Well, he does know the background. I doubt there's any danger in just having him assist. There should be a psychiatrist present, anyway.
Thank you your excellency.
Let's see whose around. In the meantime I'll call you as soon as I know.
I see, your excellency.
It might be best to have a man with experience. Maybe someone who's spent time in the foreign missions.
You'd want to do the exorcism yourself?
I don't know. No, not really I suppose. But I've made a prudent judgement that it meets the conditions set down in the Ritual.
You're convinced that it's genuine.
You're telling me that, I should take my daughter to a witch doctor? Is that it?
It's a stylized ritual in which rabbis or priests try to drive out the so-called invading spirit. It's pretty much discarded these days, except by the Catholics who keep it in the closet as a sort of embarrassment. It has worked, in fact, although not for the reason they think, of course. It was purely the force of suggestion. The victim's belief in possession helped cause it; and just in the same way this belief in the power of exorcism can make it disappear.
You're sorry. Christ, eighty-eight doctors and all you can tell me is all of your bullshit...
And I don't care what you call it! I'm not putting her away!
Look, I'm telling you again and you'd better believe it, I'm not about to put her in a goddamn asylum!
Quite frankly, we don't know much about it except that it's starts with some conflict or guilt that eventually leads to the patient's delusion that his body's been invaded by an alien intellegence; a spirit if you will.
Sure you won't change your mind?
I'm gonna miss you.
What is it?
Where do you want this?
Of course I didn't.
This was under Regan's pillow. Did you put it there?
I can't believe it.
Oh Burke! Poor Burke!
We have to start looking for a shrink.
What did the doctor say?
Yeah, well I guess you should've.
Well, when I went to get the Thorazine I had him to stay with her and... Oh, I should of known better.
What's Burke got to do with it?
Didn't who tell me?
What didn't he tell you?
What the hell do you mean going out and leaving Regan by her self! What are you kidding her window's wide open...
Why don't you let me?
Oh circuit my ass, he doesn't give a shit!
Maybe the circuit is busy?
Hello? Yes this is Mrs. MacNeil. Operator you have got to be kidding I have been on this line for twenty minutes. Jesus Christ, can you believe this, he doesn't even call his daughter on her birthday for christ sake.
Just five or six people.
Your kidding me. What is it a big party or something?
Dinner at the White House.
And you got an invitation.
Oh great, anything else?
Oh not to bad, kinda like the Walt Disney version of the Ho Chi Minh story, but other than that it was terrific.
Hi, how'd your day go?
You're a nice man.
I lied. It's for me. The spelling is on the back, Kinderman. You know that film you made called Angel? Isaw that six times.
What's her name?
Oh, she'd love it.
Of course. Have you got a pen?
I hate to ask you this but... for my daughter could you maybe give an autograph?
Couldn't hurt. In the meantime...
When she's well enough, I'll ask.
I know that. I realize. But if a certain British doctor never asked "What's this fungus?" we wouldn't today have penicillin. Correct?
Look, he wouldn't have any reason to be up there in the first place.
Incidentally, just a chance in a million, I know; but your daughter - you could possibly ask her if she saw Mr. Dennings in her room that night?
Would you like some more coffee?
Want to ask him?
Oh, I see.
I really wouldn't know, you see Karl takes care of that.
Groceries maybe? A package?
Not that I know of.
You were expecting a deliver y that day?
No. Not at all,
Strange...strange...so baffling. The deceased comes to visit, stays only twenty minutes, and leaves all alone a very sick girl. And speaking plainly Mrs. MacNeil, as you say, it's not likely he would fall from a window. Besides that, a fall wouldn't do to his neck what we found except maybe a chance in a thousand. My hunch? My opinion? I believe he was killed by a very powerful man: point one. And the fracturing of the skull - point two - plus the various things I have mentioned, would make it very probable - probable, not certain - that the deceased was killed and then pushed from your daughter's window. But no-one was here except your daughter. So how could this be? It could be one way: if someone came calling between the time Miss Spencer left and the time you returned. The servants, they have visitors?
Watch out for drafts. A draft in the fall when the house is hot is a magic carpet for bacteria.
We still don't know.
May I ask...?
Yes, I'm affraid it is.
No, she was heavily sedated.
Does your daughter remember if perhaps Mr. Dennings was in her room in her room that night?
No thanks Karl.
Excuse me Madame? Will there be anything else?
A man to see you.
Excuse me Miss?
No. It wasn't me. I didn't.
Karl if you put this in Regan's room I want you to tell me, now did you?
She is going to be well?
Karl? Did you put this in Regan's bedroom?
Bastard! I will kill you.
No rats. Thanks a lot that's terrific.
Very sorry, but you see, no rats!
Oh Karl, Jesus Christ Karl, don't do that.
There is nothing.
Well don't go now Karl the stores aren't open yet.
Yes, I go now.
Yeah or maybe rats now will you just get those traps.
I just heard them Karl.
No. No rats.
All right then we've got clean rats.
But it's clean?
Uh huh. 'Fraid so.
Good morning Karl. Oh Karl, we've got rats in the attic you better get some traps.
Good morning Madame.
Yes, I think so.
Is it coming out Willie?
Fine thank you.
How are you today?
Good morning Mrs. MacNeil.
I think it's time we started looking for a psychiatrist.
No. I'm building a new house, the old one's been sold. I was going to take Regan to Europe for a while, after she finished school here. Why d'you ask?
Are you planning to be home soon? LA, I mean.
Well of course I'm sure. I'd tell you. Christ, I don't even smoke grass.
Are you sure?
No. Of course not, nothing like that.
Do you keep any drugs in your house?
Oh. What are you talking about for Christ sake! Did you see her or not? She's acting like a fucking out of her mind psychotic or a split personality or...
We still think the temporal lobe...
What was going on in there, how could she jump off the bed like that?
She's heavily sedated. She'll probably sleep through tomorrow.
Don't be alarmed. If it's a lesion in a way she's fortunate. All we have to do is remove the scar.
Hey do me a favour will ya'. Tell me something good.
The temperal lobe is very common. Could last for days, even weeks. It isn't rare to find destructive or even criminal behaviour.
Look doc, I really don't understand how her whole personality could change.
Lesion, Lesion in the temperal lobe. It's a kind of seizure disorder.
So, what causes this?
Mrs. MacNeil the problem with your daughter is not her bed, it's her brain.
Oh no, that was no spasm. I got on the bed, the whole bed was thumping and rising off the floor and shaking. The whole thing, with me on it!
The shaking of the bed, that's doubtless due to musuclar spasms.
Well, It's a symptom of a type of desturbance in the chemico- electrical activity of the brain. In the case of your daughter in the temperal lobe, up here in the lateral part of the brain. It's rare, but it does cause bizarre hallucinations and usually just before a convulsion.
The best explanation is always the simplest one. Let's wait. Let's wait and see. In the meantime try not to worry.
Yeah, I guess. Maybe not. You don't think a psychiatrist-?
She used those words. Look, I doubt that she even understood what she was saying.
She used those words?
Well, specifically, Mrs. MacNeil, she advised me to keep my fingers away from her goddam cunt.
Hey, come on, I'm grown-up. What'd she say? I mean specifically, Doctor.
Well, what, for example? I mean, give me a for instance!
Well, I'd say her vocabulary's rather extensive.
You're kidding! Like what?
Well, she let loose quite a string while I was examining her, Mrs. MacNeil.
Wait a minute. What are you talking about?
Well, you see, that's quite similar to things like her lying- uncharacter-
Have you ever known your daughter to swear and use obscenities?
Ya know, those things to get attention, like saying that her bed shakes and stuff.
And those lies she's been telling?
Oh no. I'd wait and see what happens with the Ritalin. I think that's the answer. Wait two or three weeks.
Do you think I should take her to see a psychiatrist?
Well, you mentioned her father... the divorce.
Her condition isn't quite what it seems. Nobody knows the cause of her hyperkinetic behaviour in a child. The Ritalin sems to work to relieve the condition, but we really don't know how or why, frankly. Your daughter's symptoms could be an overreaction to depression- but that's out of my field.
Stimulant? She's higher than a kite right now!
What is it? A tranquilizer?
Now this is for Ritalin. Ten miligrams a day.
It affects concentration.
Why the math?
A disorder of the nerves. At least we think it is. We don't know yet exactly how it works, but it's often seen in earl adolescence. She shows all the symptoms: the hyperactivity; the temper; her performance in math.
Is she gonna die?
Yes. He's already here.
She killed Burke Dennings. She pushed him out of the window.
She...killed Burke Dennings.
Holy water's blessed. And that doesn't help support a case for possession.
What's the difference?
I told Regan that was holy water, I sprinkled some on her and she reacted very violently. It's tap water.
Well I think you should.
Have you told him what's happening?
Where's Regan's father?
It's fine really, sit.
Are you sure?
No it's alright I'll take it straight.
What do you drink?
It's not important good night.
Not at all. Why d'you ask?
No, is Regan aware of it?
Yes I did, I'm sorry.
Did you know my mother died recently?
Did Regan know a priest was coming over?
You show me Regan's double: same face, same voice, same everything. I'd know it wasn't Regan. I'd know in my gut and I'm telling you that that thing upstairs isn't my daughter! And I want you to tell me that you know for a fact that there's nothing wrong with my daughter except in her mind! You tell me you know for a fact that an exorcism wouldn't do any good! You tell me that!
There are no experts. You probably know as much about possession than most priests. Look your daughter doesn't say she's a demon, she says she's the devil himself and if you've seen as many psychotics as I have, you'd know it's like saying you're Napoleon Bonaparte. You ask me what I think is best for your daughter. Six months, under observation in the best hospital you can find.
I thought you were supposed to be an expert.
I don't know. I'll have to look it up.
Like her speaking in a language that she's never known or studied.
I can't do it. I need evidence that the church would accept as signs of possession.
Nothing you could do would make it any worse.
Thanks. Look, I'm only against the possibility of doing your daughter more harm than good.
Oh, will you help her! Just help her!
No, you don't understand. Your daughter-
Not a psychiatrist! She needs a priest! She's already seen every fucking psychiatrist in the world and they sent me to you, now you're gonna send me back to them! Jesus Christ, won't somebody help her!
Yes I could, I could see her as a psychiatrist...
Could you see her?
No I couldn't, I have to have church approval, and frankly, that's rarely given,-
You could do it yourself...
Well before the church approves an exorcism, it conducts an investigation to see if it's warranted. That takes time. In the meantime...
To begin with it could make things worse.
Why, I don't understand?
That's all the more reason to forget about exorcism.
Yeah well, it just so happens that somebody very close to me is probably possessed, and needs an exorcist.
Since we learned about mental illness, paranoia, schizophrenia. All the things they taught me in Harvard. Mrs. MacNeil since the day I joined the Jesuits, I've never met one priest who has performed an exorcism, not one.
Oh yeah, since when?
Well it just doesn't happen anymore Mrs. MacNeil.
I didn't get you?
Well, the first thing I'd do is put them into a time macine and send them back to the sixteenth century.
If a person was possessed by a demon of some kind, how do you go about getting an exorcism?
I beg your pardon?
And how do you go about getting an exorcism?
No I wouldn't. But I'd try to persuade him to turn himself in.
If he came to me for spritual help, I'd say no.
I mean, what if a person, let's say, was a criminal, like maybe a murderer or something, you know? If he came to you for help, would you have to turn him in?
Priests keep pretty tight mouthed then?
He didn't mention her.
Didn't tell you of what she did?
He didn't mention?
No I didn't know you had one.
About my daughter?
Did he tell you about my party?
You're a friend of Father Dyer, right?
Harvard, Bellevue, John Hopkins.
It's the other way around. The society sent me through med school.
So, how'd a shrink ever get to be a priest?
Yeah, it would've helped. Have you gotta cigarette Father?
That's okay. I should've told you I wouldn't be in uniform.
Oh, I'm very sorry Father. Hi.
I'm Father Karras.
Please go away.
Honey this is Father Dyer.
Make it stop,it really hurts! Mother! Make it...
So something please Doctor, Help her!
Mother please! Oh please mother make it stop! It's burning, it's burning please mother!
Honey it's to help you.
I don't want it.
Make it stop! What's wrong!! I'm scared!!!
Oh my God!
My bed was shaking, I can't get to sleep.
What are you doing here?
God gets lonesome for us, Rags. He wants us back.
Why does God let us get tired?
People get tired.
Cause Burke and I are just friends. Okay, really.
How do you know?
Well your thinking's not so good.
I don't know, I just thought.
Oh you did. What did you hear?
Well I heard differently.
Oh Regan I love your daddy. I'll always love your daddy. Burke just comes around here a lot because he's lonely, don't got nothin' to do.
Do you not like him like daddy?
Course I like him, I like pizzas to but I'm not gonna marry one.
But you like him.
Where'd you ever get an idea like that?
Oh my god, you kidding, me marry Burke Dennings don't be silly, of course not.
Your not gonna marry him are you?
Yeah I like him. Don't you like him? Hey what's going on? What is this?
You like him.
Well thank you very much but why on earth would I want to bring Burke on your birthday?
Well you know it's okay.
You can bring Mr. Dennings if you like.
I love you Rags. We'll have a good day yeah?
Oh I love you.
Okay. And tomorrow night, I'll take you to a movie, okay?
Well what would you like to do? Got any ideas?
I don't know
What are we gonna do on your birthday, isn't that nice it's on a Sunday this year, what can we do?
Oh you wouldn't talk, well I didn't have my make up man there.
I wouldn't talk.
It's not even a good picture. Looks to mature.
Cause I like it.
Regan, why are you reading that?
Well, maybe he's sleeping.
Captain Howdy, Do you think my mom's pretty? Captain Howdy? Captain Howdy that isn't very nice.
Here I'll show you.
Oh I bet he is.
Oh, Captain Howdy....
You know, I make the questions and he does the answers.
Who's Captain Howdy?
No I do, Captain Howdy said no.
You really don't want me to play huh?
Oh yeah, well let's both play.
No you don't. I do it all the time.
Wait a minute you need two.
Here I'll show you.
You know how?
You've been playing with it?
I found it.
Hey, where'd this come from?
Oh it's so funny.
You like it?
Oh look at that.
We'll see Regan. Now about those party invitations.......
When can I have one?
We'll see when we get home okay.
Well, not while we're in Washington.
Think it was a guilding. It was grey. Oh it was so beautiful, the guy let me ride it all around.
Really, what kind was it a mair or guilding?
Oh mom, you should have seen this man came along on this beautiful grey horse. Wasn't it pretty?
Well, me and Sharon played a game in the back yard, and we had a picnic down by the river.
What kind of stuff?
What did you do today?
Goodbye Father. I call you.
She doesn't remeber a thing.
Listen, I don't need any encouragement, but my idea of heaven is a solid white night club, with me as the head liner, for all eternity and they love me.
Yeah, don't stop. Keep going.
Hi Chris. Great party.
That's his office back of St. Mike's. He's our psychiatric counsellor. He had a pretty rough knock last night poor guy, his mother passed away. She was living by herself and I guess she was dead a couple of days before they found her.
What goes down there? I mean who's the priest I keep seeing, he's there all the time. He has black hair and he's very intense looking?
Over behind the church, you know where I mean over there, it's a red brick wing?
What we missed in the EEG and the arteriogram could conceivably turn up there. At the least, it would eliminate certain other possibilities.
A pneumoencephelogram, I would think, pin down that lesion. It will involve another spinal.
So what's next?
There haven't been more than a hundred authenticated cases of so- called split personality, Mrs. MacNeil. Now I know the temptation is to leap to psychiatry, but any reasonable psychiatrist would exhaust the somatic possibilities first.
So what's wrong with her?
Pathological states can induce abnormal strength, accelerated motor performance. For example, a ninety-pound women sees her child pinned under the wheel of a truck, runs out and lifts the wheels half a foot up off the ground. You know the story, same thing here. Same principle, I mean.
Stealing is a sin.
No, I tell fortunes by reading the crease, now shut up and go to sleep.
Are you gonna steal my shoes now?
Think you can sleep?
There was nothing you could do. Lye down. C'mon.
Oh Christ! I should of been there and I wasn't there, I should've been there.
College president shouldn't drink. Tends to set a bad example, I figure I saved them from a big temptation.
I believe you.
I stole it.
Where'd you get it then?
That's an insult, I got a vow of poverty.
Where'd you get the money for the Chivas Regal? The poor box?
Another one. Had your lunch?
I've seen it.
Heathcliff, Jackie Gleason, and in the role of Catherine Earnshaw, Lucille Ball.
Who's in it?
I get passes. In fact I got a pass for The Crest tomorrow night. Would you like to go?
Do you like films?
Ah, that's good. That's all that's important. Back to business. Back to work. Bye now, Father.
She seemed fine.
How's the girl?
You just missed them.
I came to say goodbye.
Uoy era ohw.
I am no one! I am no one! He is a priest!
Uoy era ohw.
I am no one! I am no one! He is a priest!
Tseirp a si eh! Eno on ma I! Eno on ma I! Ahhhhhhhhhhh!
Who are you?
Ydob eht ni mraw si ti! Uoy ees I! Tseirp a si eh! Emit su evig! Nirrem! Nirrem!
Until she rots and lie stinking in the earth.
How long are you planning to stay in Regan?
La plume de ma tante.
Quod nomen mihi est?
Quod nomen mihi est?
Ego te abslovo.
You speak Latin?
In time. But mirabile dictu, don't you agree?
Do it again.
Did you do that?
You and us.
You and Regan?
It would bring us together.
But wouldn't that drive you out of Regan?
You'd like that?
What an excellent day for an exorcism.
He broke the bread, gave it to his disciples and said "Take this, all of you and eat. For this is my body." When the supper had ended, he took the cup, again he gave you thanks and praise. Gave the cup to his disciples and said "Take this, all of you will drink from it, this is the cup of blood, the blood of the new and ever lasting covenant and the mystery of faith".
If that's true, then you must know my mother's maiden name. What is it?
Your mother's in here with us Karras, would you like to leave a message? I'll see that she gets it.
Show me Regan and I'll loosen one of the straps.
In here. With us.
That's much to vulgar a display of power Karras.
If you're the devil, why not make the straps disappear?
And I'm the Devil! Now kindly undo these straps!
I see. Well then let's introduce ourselves, I'm Damien Karras.
I'm not Regan.
I'm affraid you might hurt yourself Regan.
You might loosen the straps then.
Hello Regan. I'm a friend of your mother, I'd like to help you.
Momma, I'm all right, I'm fine, really I am.
You are not happy. Tell me what is the matter?
Dimmy, you worry for something?
Momma I can take you somewhere to a place where you wouldn't be alone. There'd be people around, you know you won't have to sit here listening to the radio.
Now momma you have to stay off it, you can't keep go up and down those stairs you have to give it rest.
Is that too tight?
Oh really, when?
Your Uncle John stopped by to visit me.
How's your leg?
I'm all right.
You're not my mother!!!
She'll go into coma.
Can you give her something?
What is it?
I think the point is to make us dispair... To see our selves as... animal and ugly... To reject the possibillity that God could love us.
Why this girl it makes no sense?
... upon this your servant, Regan Teresa MacNeil.
Defender of the human race...
And also with you.
The Lord be with you.
And let my cry come unto thee.
See the cross of the Lord. Be gone you hostile power. O'Lord hear my prayer.
...and the power to confront this cruel demon.
And let my cry come unto thee.
Father Karras? Father Karras? Damien? The reponse please Damien!
O'Lord hear my preyer.
...and to redeem through your son. Who lives and reigns with you, in the unity of the holy spirit, God forever and ever.
Let us pray. Holy Lord, almighty Father, everlasting God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who once and for all consigned that fallen tyrant to the flames of hell. Who sent your only begotten son into the world to crush that roaring lion.
And also with you.
The Lord be with you.
And let my cry come unto thee.
And the son of iniquity be powerless to harm her.
Let the enemy have no power over her.
In the face of the enemy.
Be unto her o' Lord a fortified tower.
Who places her trust in thee, my God.
Save your servant
As it was in the begin is now and ever shall be, world without end, amen.
Save me o' God by thy name, by thy might defend my cause, proud men have risen up against me, men of violence seek my life, but God is my helper, the Lord sustains my life and every need he has delivered to me, glory be to the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.
But deliver us from the evil one.
Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day, our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation.
There's only one.
I think it would be helpful if I gave you some background on the different personalities Regan has manifested. So far, there seems to be three. She's convinced-
We may ask what is relevant, but anything beyond that is dangerous. He is a liar, the demon is a liar. He will lie to confuse us. But he will also mix lies with the truth to attack us. The attack is psychological , Damien. And powerful. So don't listen, remember that, do not listen.
Do you want to hear the background of the case, first?
I would like you to go quickly over to the resdence Damien, and gather up a cassock for myself, two surplices, a purple stole, and some holy water, and your copy of The Roman Ritual. The Large one. I believe we should begin.
I could have you deported, you know that?
The Dominicans. Go pick on them.
Alright. You know who I think really did it?
Answer the question, Father Paranoia.
One last time: Can you think of some priest who fits the bill?
I've seen it.
Who's in it? Debbie Reynolds, Desdemona, and Othello, Groucho Marx. You're happy?
Who's in it?
Yeah, I hate to go alone. You know, I like to talk film; discuss the critique. D'you wanna see a film with me? I got passes to The Crest. It's Othello.
That's to bad.
I get passes to the best shows in town. Mrs. K though, she gets tired and never likes to go.
Hey, Father? You like movies?
Incidentally I mention only in passing that I could tell the judge that it was a matter of confession.
No, I mentioned it only in passing.
Is that a threat?
Not to bother you with trivia, but a psychiatrist in sunny California was thrown in jail for not telling the judge what he knew about a patient.
No I probably wouldn't.
Ah, doctor's ethics. If you knew you wouldn't tell, huh?
I don't know anyone who fits the description.
Look, Father this is hard for you- please. But for priests on the campus here, you're the psychiatrist; you'd know who was sick at the time, who wasn't. I mean this kind of sickness. You'd know that.
Sick priest, is that it?
Maybe somebody crazy, someone with a spite against the church, some unconscious rebellion, perhaps.
You think the killer and the desecrator are the same?
Exactly. So on the one hand we've got a witchcraft type of murder and a Black Mass style of desecration in the church.
It's possible. Possible however
Couldn't it of happened on the fall.
Let me tell you how Father, and please confidential. Burke Dennings, good Father, was found at the bottom of those steps leading to 'M' Street, with his head turned completely around. Facing backwards.
Yeah, a fall.
And Dennings, you read how he died?
Maybe. Some rituals used in Black Mass. Maybe.
I know. I read it. These desecration's in the churchyou think they have anything to do with witchcraft?
From the psychiatric end.
I once did a paper on it
Papers. Tell me, what do you know about the subject of witchcraft? From the witching end, not the hunting.
Only what I read in the papers.
You've seen him. You're also familiar with how last week he died?
I've seen him.
You this director was doing a film here, Burke Dennings?
Do people tell you look like Paul Newman?
Yeah, it's true. You do look like a boxer. John Garfield, in Body and Soul. Exactly John Garfield anyone told you that Father?
What's this about?
William F. Kinderman. Homicide.
No we haven't met, but they said I could tell; that you looked like a boxer.
Have we met?
You killed your mother!!! You left her alone to die!!!! She'll never forgive you!!! Bastard!!!
...look down in pity...
...from this creature of God!!!
Fuck him Karras!!! Fuck him!!!
...in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ!!! It is he who commands you! He who flung you from the heights of Heaven to the depths of hell!
Shove it up your ass you faggot!
I cast you out!!! Unclean spirit...!
Almighty Lord, word of God the father Jesus Christ, God and Lord of all creation, who gave to your holy apostle the power to tramp underfoot serpents and scorpions. Grant me, your unworthy servant pardon for all my sins...
O'Lord hear my prey.
Your mother sucks cocks in hell Karras, you faithless slime!
Stick your cock up her ass! You mother fucking, worthless cocksucker!
Are you tired?
Just a minute.
Yes I am her brother, he's the son
Are you a relative?
Do you have an appointment?
We want to see Mrs. Karras.
If he talks to me, I think he'll leave you. Do you want him to leave you?
If I ask him to tell me, will you let him answer?
I don't know.
Is it Captain Howdy?
I don't know.
Who is it?
Is there someone inside you?
How old are you?
Are you comfortable Regan?
Give me the keys.
It's our goddamn car!
It's my goddamn car!
You're not going to drive!
Give me the keys!
You're not going to drive.
Give me the keys.
It wasn't half full out there tonight, Frankie. I got six waiters standing in back listening to baseball. I gotta move the liquor. To move the liquor, I gotta fill the tables. It's a matter of economics. Me, I love you. I love both you guys, you know that. You're class. But people today. They don't know class if it walks up and grabs 'em by the balls.
Vacation? Christ, Charlie, it's a Monday night. You said so yourself.
So maybe it's time we took a vacation from each other.
Right, twelve years. Couple times a month.
Look, Frankie. You and Jack been playing here, a long time.
What're you saying, Charlie?
It's all there. Both nights.
I've got the grands for two nights, Charlie. You can't just --
We don't need you, Frankie.
What about tomorrow?
Take it now.
Now? Why not tomorrow? After the show.
Little slow tonight.
Yeah, come on in.
You wanted to see me, Charlie?
Just the same.
We have some lotion.
Maybe next time.
Too bad. You could use some sun. Really.
Oh. No. Strictly dryland.
Where are our kids? Has he got one of them in there?
You believe this? The kid won't come out. I'm playing 'Camptown Races' for him and the next thing I know he's locked himself in the bathroom. There's nothing sharp in there, is there?
You bring trunks, Jack?
Well, look at this.
I'll take her inside. You too, little Frank. Out of the pool.
Nothing's the matter. Is it, sweetheart?
The sooner we do this the better, Mr. Baker.
I think maybe I'll bring him back next week ...
Don't worry, Mr. Baker. We'll knock him out. He won't feel a thing.
What do you do to him?
Start him out on cottage cheese. If you've got him on kibble, just soak it a few minutes. Go down like pudding through a hot pipe.
How will he eat?
Decay unfortunately doesn't limit itself to the denture, Mr. Baker. It spreads into his chest. Then the heart goes. We wouldn't want that, would we?
Isn't there something you can give him? A pill or something?
Five's my guess. Maybe more. Won't know till I get in there. Leave him now and you can pick him up in the morning.
They gotta go.
Uh-oh. That's not good. Let's get him up here.
They're falling out.
What's wrong with them?
What's our friend's problem?
I don't see any ladies here. Except maybe you.
You're a real tough guy when the ladies are around, aren't you, Ace?
Go fuck yourself.
Come on, friend. I can smell it on you. Get yourself a cup of coffee. You'll forget what you're angry about.
Get your hand off me.
What do you say we go for a walk, pal.
The fire. The way we're going we'll be lucky to buy a carton of jockstraps, let alone a new gym.
Knee. Tore it up against St. Anthony's. Right before the accident.
What's wrong with the kid?
My brother and I. One each.
Two at a time?
Oh. What do you do?
You the magician?
Wait. Watch. Here comes Dad.
Oh, look at you two. So skinny. And those tiny suits ...
I had a boy down at the camera shop cut them all together. Boy, old man Henderson didn't fool around when he gave a haircut, did he, Jack?
In the attic. Behind some of Dad's stuff. Look, Jack can hardly reach the pedals.
I thought these were lost. Where did you find ...
Recognize these two characters?
Oh my God ...
Catholics. What do you expect? Oh, well, what's in a name, right? Let's go inside and have a look at that cake.
Uh ... yeah, well, you know, Ma, John Kennedy went by Jack.
Yes, yes. It's just that John is so much nicer. Jack sounds so ... crude. When I was a little girl, we had a pig on the farm named Jack. I guess I just can't help making the association.
Twenty years, Ma ...
I thought maybe held gotten over that.
Uh, Ma, you know, no one calls him that anymore. Jack. He goes by Jack.
A little stiffer, but just as sturdy.
How's the birthday girl?
Well, if it isn't the fabulous Baker Boys!
Tag 'em, Willie. The Regency downtown, Thursday-Friday. Thanks.
What's the gig?
Wednesday next. Frank looks across the room at Jack.
When they coming in?
What happened to the two Clays, Willie?
I told Halloran we didn't do vocals, but he said:
She asked for it.
Christ, that's right. How could I forget. What a nightmare.
Daughter's. Sweet sixteen.
Right. It was someone's birthday. Halloran?
Five years ago. November.
Jesus, when was the last time we played the Mallory?
Yeah. Larry Shelton. Blackie. Couple others. Donna said even Lloyd called the other day. Nothing like a little absence to make the heart grow fonder, huh?
I can keep the beat.
I mean, you can play. You're okay.
Yeah, I know. Me, too.
You know, that night, I ... It just all came up.
Oh. Fine. It was nothing. Couple sore knuckles. Nothing.
How're your hands?
This'll kill 'em.
Looks like these got a few years on them.
I'll take the Mallory.
Hey, what do you know. Looks like we can have that drink after all. What's your pleasure? We got the downtown Ramada. We got the Travelodge on Route 41. And ... the Mallory.
Oh, yeah, right. I forgot.
No, it's not that. I ... can't drink from the bottle. I ... gag.
Bought it on the way over. Clean as a nun.
There's not going to be a viewing. I figured with the kids and all ...
I set it for Wednesday. The ceremony. They're doing the stone today. It's okay? Wednesday?
Oh. Yeah. It was all worked out before, you know. She and Dad had taken care of it.
Is everything done? The arrangements, I mean.
Uh, we already boxed some things. I figured you'd want to go through Dad's stuff. It's in there. If you want to get started.
Oh ... I was just hoping for something to drink. But it seems the old lady was dry. Not even a bottle of cooking sherry.
What're you doing?
I didn't hear you come in.
Who's weak now, big brother?
No, fuck you. And fuck him too. Fuck the both-of you.
That's right. I wasn't there. I don't have the luxury of being a witness to tragedy.
You weren't there.
No, let's stay on it. I'm sick and tired of watching you make him up into some kinda god. For Christ sake, Jack, he died doing a stupid bullshit jig. He left a wife and two sons. He wasn't a hero. He was a fool.
Stay off it.
Dignity? Who the hell are you to talk about dignity?
What's happening to you, Frank? You been kissing ass so long you're starting to like it? You let that guy turn us into clowns tonight. We were always small time, but we were never clowns, Frank. What's happened to your dignity?
It wasn't professional, Jack. It was a stunt. A stupid-ass stunt.
I'm sorry. I should've checked it out. I screwed up. But that doesn't mean you walk out in the middle of a gig.
Basketballs, Frank. You had us playing for basketballs.
Look. I didn't know when we were going to be on until yesterday. What was I supposed to do? I had the pianos anyway.
What-are you? A fucking moron? It's three o'clock in the morning, Frank. Who's watching? Your wife? Maybe you can get us a gig playing Little Frank's birthday party. What do you think?
Shut up, Frank.
Jack, you're on television.
We're playing for a goddamn gymnasium!
Are you kidding me? Are you fucking kidding me?
We're on after Meadowlark. What's wrong?
A channel. It's just a little further down the dial, that's all. Look, it's publicity. Publicity's publicity. Right?
Seventy-one? What's seventy-one?
What channels it on?
It's a disease, Jack. We're against it. It's not a moral decision.
You don't know?
I don't know.
I don't know. Some disease.
What's it for?
I told you, Jack. It's a telethon. No one gets a cent.
Nothing. We get nothing.
We're not getting paid then.
You know, my brother and I have been playing together, gosh, I don't know. Jack?
Better give her pneumonia.
You want to know how much I got tied up in deposits with Willie? We're in for three weeks solid, Jack.
Just until we find another girl.
What're you doing?
I play two hundred nights a year with you, Frank. How much more reasonable you expect me to be?
Be reasonable, Jack.
I mean maybe you should check with us before you go off and book us a month in advance.
What do you mean?
I can't make the tenth.
The tenth's out.
That takes care of this week. The tenth we got the Sheraton, the sixteenth we're at the Capri.
Maybe so. You ever go back there? Where it happened.
You're making things up, Frank.
I could've. But he didn't want me to.
You could've come.
Yeah, but he told you things. He never told me anything. Even though I was the oldest. It was always you two, running off, doing things together.
It was just a can of beer, Frank.
It was like you'd passed some test, you know?
He was just having fun.
Yeah, and you drank yours like it was orange juice. He loved that about you.
You always threw up.
I always think of him on New Year's. How he used to pour us each half a can of beer. Remember?
God, the old man would've loved this view, wouldn't he?
I told you. It's a useless talent.
Not for me. I still have to look at the music sometimes, you know that? Otherwise, I forget. I just forget. But you. You never forget. Ever. So how come you couldn't remember Ma's birthday?
They were simple songs.
Drove me crazy when we were kids. The way you never looked at the music. Miss Simpson would just play it and ...
A useless talent.
Right. It's incredible how you do that. Remember things.
Right. The Royal. When's the last time we were there?
A gift. Courtesy of our courteous hotel manager, Mr. Daniels. We, dear brother, are a fucking smash. Yup. They want us back. Easter. It seems they have this egg hunt every year. Only not for kids. Adults. They stuff these plastic eggs with Timexes and little certificates for free Mai Tais and everyone has a grand time crawling around on the front lawn. Then afterwards, they have a dance. An egg dance. Everyone comes dressed in a different colored shell and at the end of the evening they crack themselves open. It's our job to separate the yolks from the whites. Slippery business.
No, you're wrong. It's just beginning. Come on, have a drink. Show your big brother how it's done.
The party's over.
Celebrating. Join me?
What're you doing down here?
You're a heavy sleeper, Frank. You've always-been a heavy sleeper. Unlike me.
How come I didn't hear anything?
He had to come quickly. It was a big leak.
He was wearing a suit.
We had a leak in the bathroom. He fixed it.
What are you talking about?
He's with the hotel. I called him.
You saw wrong.
We were just having a little discussion about morality.
What're you trying to do? Wake up the whole goddamn hotel?
Thinking there's someone who looks like you, walking around the street somewhere. Wonder if I saw him I'd think it was you?
Dedications. I came up with the idea on the road. See, every morning the maids drop one of these cards in each room. The guest fills out the card, leaves it at the front desk, and that night we play it. Daniels went crazy for the idea. And that's not all. Last night, after the nine o'clock, he corners me, right, and starts asking about our availability. Like he wants to line something up. I think he's got a hard-on for Susie.
What the hell are these?
Yeah, well, she's our girl now. I think we better keep an eye on her. There's trouble there. Hey, listen to this. Ethel and Bert Lane. Married seventy-five years. You believe that?
She's a big girl.
Just wonder what she's up to. I never see her. Makes me nervous.
You haven't seen Susie, have you?
Time flies, huh?
Two hours ago!
They stopped serving two hours ago.
Half-hour. Once I finish this octave I'm gonna get breakfast. You see what's on the buffet?
How long you been at it?
How's it coming?
Yes, really. I don't want you to be unhappy, Jack. If you say it's out of tune, it's out of tune.
What's it look like I'm doing? I'm tuning a goddamn piano.
What the hell are you doing?
It won't happen again. Scout's honor.
How dare you say you love me.
I'm sorry, Frank. All that talk about family. I just got emotional.
What's the matter with you?
I love you. I just wanted to say it.
Right. I love you, Frank.
Thank you, thank you. You know, Susie and Jack and I only just arrived here yesterday, but already the people here at the King Corporation's Moorish Manor have made us feel, well, a part of the family. And it's their hope that, before you leave, everyone of you will feel a part of that family also. So, if during-the next few days, we should happen to pass one another in the hallway or in the lobby or wherever ... don't be a stranger. Stop. Say hello. Introduce yourself. Because here, there are no strangers, only friends. And family. Right, Jack?
Well, then stuff cotton in your ears, because come six o'clock we're gonna walk into that dining room with smiles on. Understand, little brother?
Because I can hear it.
What matters to me is we've got the six easiest nights we've had in ten years. So 'Tie a Yellow Ribbon' sounds a little flat. So what? Nobody's gonna hear it, Jack. Nobody. So why should you care?
Doesn't it matter to you?
No! I never hear it! Maybe. Sometimes. I don't know. But I won't let it bother me.
Christ, can't you hear it?
What's the matter with you? So the piano's a little out of tune. So what?
No, that's your problem, Frank. You get around one of these assholes and you turn into a fucking three-year-old.
Jack ... Jack ... You're acting like a kid.
Why don't we let Mr. Daniels tell us what he's trying to say.
I think what Mr. Daniels is trying to say, Jack, is --
Accommodate? I don't think I know what you mean.
I don't know. I mean, I always did it as a kid. I figured it was no big deal. Is it? A big deal?
Why would I mind?
Yeah. You mind?
So you're gonna leave it on. Every night. For a week.
We're gonna be here a week?
You leaving that on?
But if it doesn't work out, let me know. I'm,flexible.
I just figure things'll go smoother, you know, if we have it all worked out from the beginning.
We might as well do the towels the same way.
No, you take the right.
Unless you want the right.
I figure that way we won't get confused.
I'm putting my stuff on the right, okay?
Good idea. To Peggy Lee.
Have some more wine, Frank.
Not true. Besides, Jack's the romantic.
A few bars!
Frank asked if she'd sit in for a song, she said yes, and we did a few bars.
Pearls. White gown. Beautiful.
We were playing the lounge one night and she came in.
It was April. April seventeenth. That one I remember.
She was staying at the Grand downtown ...
Come on, Jack. It's not like it's the first time we've bunked together. It'll be like when we were kids. Relax. Enjoy the view.
I thought we all had separate rooms.
We do. She's got hers, we've got ours. Hey. Wash and Dries.
I thought we had separate rooms.
Two years ago. March.
When's the last time we played a wedding, Jack?
All right, but if you change your mind, let me know. I gotta go get Ma in the morning anyway.
Thanks, but I've got plans.
You want to come out to the house tomorrow? The way the bookings been piling up, Donna's decided to really lay it on. Turkey, stuffing, the whole bit. Kitchen's so full of food you can hardly move. We could use another appetite.
Well, the line's growing weaker, little brother. Lucky for us there aren't any dragons left to slay.
Yeah, well, what can I say? Dad must've had forty pounds on me. Jesus, you remember him being this big?
So what do you think?
Just a lucky guess.
You recognized me.
Okay I'll see you tomorrow night then.
You all right?
You wanna get a drink?
Yeah ... Well, I gotta go.
Something, huh? All those bids.
I'll take my chances.
Better take care of your fingers, little brother. Buy yourself a case of arthritis and you won't be able to play 'Chopsticks.'
That's it except for the first. We got the Sheraton, the Ambassador, or the Holiday Inn on Sixtieth. All three-day turns.
Make it collect.
That's what I figure. Probably have us in a bed-and-breakfast playing to the owls.
Sounds like a booking agent looking to book an easy fee.
And it's especially nice to be among friends tonight, because, well, tonight's a very special night for my brother and I. This evening we've asked a young lady to join us, a lady Jack and I are sure will soon seem like just another old friend to you all. She's making her debut here this evening and, as far as I'm concerned, she couldn't be doing it in a better place. Because there's one place that's always been for us a very special place, and that place is this place, the Ambassador Lounge. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome a very special lady with a very special way of singing a song, Miss Susie Diamond.
Jack, for crying out loud. Your bachelorhood's showing. Ah, here we go.
How about these?
Here, how's this?
I just wish she'd get here, that's all.
You're a fucking alarm clock.
All right, all right. I'm a little tense.
I told you I was gonna hit you.
You hit me.
I'll hit you, Frank. I swear.
It's not gonna hurt you.
Get out of here!
Come on, stand still.
Get out of here.
Yeah, well, Your's isn't. Let me run a comb though it.
Just like the day of the auditions, right? Jesus. How's my hair?
She'll get here.
I told everyone seven-fifteen. Didn't I? Seven-fifteen.
Where the hell is she?
I'll drop the eighths.
I suppose we can bring it down a little.
I didn't get her number.
What's the matter?
Okay, okay. I'll call the girl.
How many other silent partners are there, Frank? Donna? Little Cindy? Hell, let's give Eddie a vote.
Ma? Ma? Was Ma there the last time we played the Ambassador? Oh, that's right, she was on bass. How could I forget.
I was just thinking what Ma would think.
You're getting cold feet about this.
I don't know ... She had gum on her lip, for Christ sake. I don't think she's right for the act.
What's there to talk about? She can sing. That puts her at the head of the class. That makes her the only one in the class.
I just thought we should talk about it. Between ourselves.
What are you, crazy?
All right. What's your name?
Let's get it over with.
I just don't understand. You would think someone ... anyone ...
It was a somewhat extraordinary day.
Thirty-seven girls. And not one who can carry a tune. That must be statistically impossible.
It never was.
Two pianos isn't enough anymore, Jack.
You, Frank. All these years you been telling me we're different. We got novelty, Jack. No one can touch us.
I thought maybe twenty percent. Look, with the additional bookings we'll come out ahead. The big hotels, they want a pretty girl with a big voice. We have to stay competitive, Jack.
I'm grateful, Frank. How much? For the singer.
I've tried to do well by you, Jack. By both of us.
Frank. Fuck it. Okay?
If you'd like to assume more of the financial responsibilities, I'd be glad --
I'm not unhappy.
If you're unhappy with the arrangement --
That's what we agreed.
We agreed that if I took care of the business; I'd be entitled to the extra. Isn't that what we agreed?
It's more like 40-60, wouldn't you say?
It's just an idea. I want your opinion. I mean, we go halfway on everything, right?
Sure, why not.
I been thinking maybe we should make some changes. I been thinking maybe we should take on a singer.
Look, can we forget last night? We gotta talk.
Hey, you weren't there. Right?
Yeah, and what put him up there?
A gust of wind killed him.
That how you see it?
Hey pal, I got a mortgage, all right? I got two kids. I got a wife. Besides, he made the deal. There's no shame in it.
What was it like?
It wasn't like that.
Bullshit. Fifteen years, Frank. No one paid us off.
I told you. Something came up. Some political dinner or something.
The hell you don't.
I don't know what you mean.
Charlie paid you off last night, didn't he?
You ask me out here to sell me your house, Frank?
Yeah ... we're gonna paint in the spring. After the rains. Look good as new.
The trees. The flowers. Nice.
Honey, it's only Uncle Jack. You remember Uncle Jack.
Your doorbell doesn't work.
So you'll come out, right?
Something came up. Don't worry, Charlie stayed true. Both nights. I'll give you your share tomorrow. At the house.
What're you talking about?
We don't get a gig.
So talk to me tomorrow. After the gig.
It's not family. It's business.
I've had enough family for one month, Frank.
Yeah. Listen ... come out to the house tomorrow, will ya?
Nothing. Everything's great. Terrific.
What's with Charlie?
Her hands. Like that.
What do you mean?
I made her nervous.
So what'd we get her?
Christ, Jack, it's her birthday.
You're thirteen months older than me, Frank. That might've meant something in the Apache clubhouse, but it don't cut too deep anymore.
Your older brother.
You gotta go.
I don't gotta go.
This time you gotta go.
No, you gotta go 'cause if you don't get up there every couple weeks you feel guilty. I won't feel guilty, so I don't gotta go.
We gotta go, Jack.
So do I.
No, I mean it.
By the way, we gotta go see Ma tomorrow.
It's more than that.
It's only a ring. Not a collar.
Funny. Strike a bell?
Uh-uh. How about you? You seeing anyone?
What about that waitress at the Ambassador?
I'm not seeing anyone. In particular.
Because I'm your brother. Because I care about you. Because sometimes it seems like the most significant relationship in your life is with that goddamn dog of yours.
Why the interest?
Seeing anyone in particular?
Only on odd days.
Really. You sleeping?
You look awful.
Trust me, you're not missing anything.
You know, I think it's been five years since I saw you eat anything. That's the God's truth.
Try the black Knable.
What do you think?
Yamaha white. Nice.
What d'ya got?
What d'you say, Willie? Tighten her up?
Bosen black. Flat.
What d'ya got?,
Look, I just thought if you came out you might see what you're missing.
You got weird kids, Frank.
She didn't know what she was doing. You're too sensitive.
She threw a goddamn radio into the bathtub. How do you explain that?
It was no fucking accident, Frank. The little one ...
It was an accident.
They tried to electrocute me, Frank.
They don't. They're always asking about you.
Only by relation. Besides, they hate me, too.
You're their uncle.
I hate your kids, Frank.
Listen ... why don't you come out to the house this weekend. Say hello to the kids. They've grown.
Maybe Thursday. I hear the harpist at the Sheraton's got appendicitis.
So we on tomorrow night?
Fuck him. Great. Terrific. Fuck him.
This isn't the Pine Tree Inn on Route 81, Jack.
You mind telling me what that was about in there? Was that planned? Or were you just bored and decided to get creative?
Count the fucking money, Frank.
Like an angel.
I mean it, Jack. Behave.
Who's gonna make trouble? Hey, amigo!
Don't make trouble, all right?
Of course, back then, things were a little different. I was eight, Jack was seven, just about the only song we knew was 'My Bonnie Lies Over the Ocean', and the only one who would listen to us was the family cat, Cecil. We must have shaved three lives off that cat, eh, Jack?
That's a lot of water under the bridge, eh, Jack?
Twenty-eight years, Frank.
You know, my brother and I have been playing together, gosh, I don't know. How long has it been, Jack?
No one's gonna be looking at my hair. Come on, we're on.
You look like you just crawled out of bed.
What's wrong with it?
Christ, will you look at your hair?
Frank. I'm here. I always get here. Don't sweat it.
You want me to show up late a few nights?
You cannot continue to walk in at the last moment, Jack.
What's the point?
That's not the point.
Am I late?
How we ... ? What, are you kidding me?
How we doing?
Great. Terrific. Glad you could make it.
Your limo's ready, Ma.
A cab? Ma, come on. My car's just a half block down. You wait here.
Just call me a cab.
No, we're not. Jack?
No, no. You boys are tired.
I guess you're,right. Well, what do you say we get a little midnight snack? Theo's should still be open.
A few empty tables. It's cozier. Besides, Mel Torme couldn't fill this place on a Wednesday night.
The audience was a little off tonight.
Thrilling. Both of you.
So what'd you think?
Spur of the moment.
You should've told us you were coming, Ma. We would've come and got you.
What am I gonna do? Put a record player out there? Bad, Frankie. Bad.
Look, Nick. You want us to pack up, we'll pack up.
You got no right springing this on me, Frankie. It's unethical.
So she's got a few sniffles.
Sick? How sick?
Well ... thanks. Bye.
Yes, it is.
Oh, sorry. I get so caught up in it sometimes. It's scary.
Really? Isn't that a coincidence.
Uh... he knows it.
It's one of Jack's favorites.
Candy Man.' Is that all right?
Uh-huh. Well, Miss Moran, what is it you'd like to do for us?
And if she asks what it's about, don't tell her. She's opposed to my career.
But if you call my house and my mother answers, ask for Blanche. If you ask for Monica, she'll think you have the wrong number and hang up.
Well, that's fine --
No romance, right? That's why I came up with Monica. It's what I prefer.
Moran. Monica. The whole thing. It's my stage name. My real name's Blanche.
Actually, that's my stage name.
Uh ... Frank Baker. This is my brother.
I'm sorry to interrupt, but when I saw you sitting here, I just had to come over. Florence Simmons.
Catchy. You have any previous entertainment experience, Miss Diamond?
Susie. Susie Diamond.
What's that mean? Thirty-eight.
You find a girl?
So run a little longer.
We ran long.
So if I'm so 'late how come you're still here?
You're an hour and a half late.
I don't believe it. I come all the way down down here, break a heel, and you're not gonna give me a chance because I have gum on my lip and I'm a few minutes late.
How should I take it?
Don't take it personally.
Just like that, huh? You're not even gonna give me a chance?
Look, miss. We're tired, you have gum on your lip, and we're going home.
This is show business?
Punctuality. First rule of show business.
My watch is broken, too.
You're an hour and a half late.
What about me?
What do you mean?
This is where the auditions were.
This where the auditions are?
And two more times tomorrow night, and two more times the next night, and the next night and the next night and the next night. Frank, I can't sing that fucking song anymore!
Susie. It's one more show. One more time. That's all.
I'm gonna throw up, Frank. I mean it. Let's drop it for the ten o'clock, okay?
What're you talking about? They love it.
That song. I can't sing it anymore. I'm gonna get sick.
I can't sing it anymore.
How about you? Got a Bar Mitzvah this weekend?
I guess I ... If I jumped to...
I just saw a man walk out of your room!
No. You listen. I had my doubts about you from the beginning
Decency? Hey listen, pal ...
In case you've forgotten, we're being paid to be here. So it might be nice if you conducted yourself with a certain amount of decency.
I just saw a man walk out of your room.
You want to tell me what the hell's going on?
Forget your tie, handsome ... Frank!
Someone needs to grow up. I won't take it, Jack.
What's with you guys?
Well then ... shall we?
Oh. Yeah. I gotta bunch of them.
Got another song for us?
Uh, well, I love you, too, Jack. So. Susie. How 'bout it.
Jack woke up on the wrong side of the bottle.
What's with you two?
He's just afraid to show it. Aren't you, little brother?
I don't believe it. You're a romantic, Frank.
What do you say we send a bottle over?
They must've bought the same map we did.
Hey, will you look at that?
No. We got a picture, though. One of the waitresses had a camera. God, we were just kids. That was something, wasn't it?
Wow. You ever see her again?
People.' You think Streisand, right? Hot that night. Chills. Through the whole audience. I could hardly play.
What'd she sing?
As Charlie Steinway is my witness.
You're kidding me.
Hey, we're connected.
It's paradise. That's what it is. Paradise.
Smells like tuna number two to me.
Of course it smells like fish. We're on the ocean. What'd you expect, Chanel number five?
Smells like fish.
And how about this air? I'm telling you, a few days in this place'll put five years on your life.
I told you, he's got the gift. Same with music. Hears it once and he's got it.
I don't believe it.
Okay.The Fantasy Inn.
He's always right. Go ahead. Pick a virgin.
First times. Hey, look at this.
Jesus, you fellas've made a lot of noise. What's with the stars?
You play all these places?
Sorry. It only plays static.
Maybe we should just listen to the radio.
You two could play checkers.
For the kids. Merry Christmas, you two. Don't forget. We leave the twenty-sixth.
Well, well. Ho, ho, ho. You moonlighting at Macy's, Frank?
So find a dime. Let's get out of here.
Uh, well ... we flipped a coin.
Maybe. I'll call him.
Maybe it's legit.
By the way, I got a messsage yesterday from some guy looking for New Year's action. Resort, upstate.
We take the Avedon, right? Simple.
I guess it's,the Plaza then. That brings us to the twenty-seventh. We got the Avedon for three or the Park downtown for two.
The Carlton's a dump. No cover. No minimum. And they water their drinks. It's strictly for the Fuller brush crowd.
Jack, you with us?
We do not take tips. I'll apply this to the cost of the dress.
I was gonna split it with you guys.
We are not a saloon act. We do not take tips from dirty old men.
Give me that.
For Christ sake, I said it, I didn't do it. Besides, I don't think they were too offended, do you?
Did you hear it?
I said I was sorry.
Fucking. She says fucking in front of an entire room of people.
Switch? What fucking switch?
The switch. Hit the switch.
Piece of cake.
Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I can't tell you how thrilled I am to be here. It's like a dream come true. And speaking of dreams ...
We need scissors over here! Who's got scissors? Okay, remember. Jack and I go on first, I do the set-up, then introduce you. And you say ...
You're a prince.
Don't worry. We'll take it out of your share.
You can buy new ones tomorrow.
Well, they're aspiring to be sevens.
Zip me up?
What do you think?
All right, but make it quick. Shoes! What size do you wear?
Hey, pal. I don't know about you, but where I come from there's a little girl's room and a little boy's room and the little boys don't go where the little girls go.
We're not exactly silly with time, you know. Jack, you find anything?
Save it for your wife.
Okay, okay. Here, how about this?
I wear a seven.
My wife wears a seven. You don't look like a seven to me.
Just look. What do you wear? A nine?
If you ask me, this is pretty stupid.
Time for what?
Come on. We don't have much time.
Am I missing something?
What's wrong with it?
That! You can't wear that!
Do I look like I'm naked?
Is there a language problem here? Your dress. For tonight. Where is it?
What's he talking about?
Where's your dress?
We'll talk about it later. Right now, you gotta get changed.
And how come you guys are the only ones with your pictures on the poster?
Where's my name?
Christ, look at her. You'd think if she was gonna wear her street clothes she'd have enough sense to come in the back. Good evening, Miss Diamond. You're late.
So work with me, not against me. Okay?
We're a team. We work together.
What I mean is --
No. We are not supposed to be backing you up.
I mean, you're supposed to be backing me up, right?
The problem is I can't hear myself sing with all this... ... music. You know what I'm saying?
What's the problem?
What are we, an orchestra all of a sudden?
Don't leave a girl hanging. Second rule of show business.
When we know.
Uh ... we'll let you know.
That's the premise.
I sing now?
Okay. I think that's all we need to know.
Hey, it's legit. Strictly dinner and dance.
Uh, well ...
Is that important?
They are in tune. But not with each other.
Then I'm afraid I don't understand.
Yes, well, they are.
Tom here tells me there's a problem with the pianos. We were assured they were in tune.
That'd be me, sir. Frank Baker. This is my brother Jack.
Good morning, gentlemen. I'm Mr. Daniels, the manager. I believe I've spoken to one of you on the phone.
We trust you, Lloyd. You know that.
Lucky for you. Well, there you go, guys. Don't spend it all in one place. Oh ... you want to count it, Jack?
Born and bred.
Yes, sir. That's quite a girl you boys latched onto. She a local?
I'll call you.
Uh, well, you know, the way our schedule is, I thought maybe...
I'll call you.
Uh ... You don't know when you'll be wanting us back, do you, Lloyd?
Uh ... thanks.
Yes, sir. You're just what we needed on a night like this.
Terrific, boys. Really. Terrific.
I mean, I'd hate to think I'd pick up someone who wore that shit.
Shit, thank God. You look like a creep.
Will I see you again?
Whatcha doin' over there?
Right. In there.
They never do, Mr. Barker.
He doesn't bite.
You should've brought a leash, Mr. Barker. The doctor doesn't like to be bitten.
Come on, Ed.
Right. Bring him back.
Baker. Jack Baker.
Barker. Jock Barker?
You know, I'm feeling a lot of hostility from you.
Don't worry about it.
So. I'm here, you're here, the piano's here. What d'ya say?
All right. they lay the dead ones out in the cold room. I'll take a look.
Save it. What's he look like?
The name's Baker --
All right. Hold on.
You want to know if he's okay. Right?
Yeah, well, couldn't I take a look now?
You can check in on him tomorrow. Between eight and five.
Yeah, yeah, I know. I was just passing by. Thought I'd check in on him.
Regular hours are eight to five.
No, I, uh, left a dog here this morning. He needed some work on his mouth.
Yes. I supposed you still have that old phone booth.
It's been a long time, Ma.
You miss him, don't you?
Yes, well, it's probably best. No sense bringing someone else in.
For a while. She left.
He mentioned you had a girl for a while. A singer.
Is that the way it is?
He leads, I follow.
And you don't?
Frank works hard.
It went well tonight.
I'm tired. Really. I should get home.
Well, now, where's everyone run off to? Frank?
Funny how life repeats itself, huh? Over and over. Like a song.
Thanks. For letting me in last night.
I didn't want to wake you.
Sneak out in the morning. Before the guy could wake up and ruin it. Never figured I'd be on the other end of it, though.
Let me get the light.
Well, this is some surprise. Hey ... You don't look so good, pal.
If I see him.
Tell egghead I said hi. If you see him.
I've given it up.
Listen... you want to get a drink? I got a new place. Or we could go to a bar ... Well, maybe not a bar. But I know a place uptown, if you want --
Oh. Carrots. And peas. None of the important ones.
Terrific. I'm doing vegetables next week.
So how's the cat food business?
You don't pick your brother.
Yeah, well, like I said, it didn't figure. You two.
We outgrew each other.
So ... ?
Yeah. Got my own sign.
Saw the sign outside. Got your own sign, huh?
There's always another girl.
You can always get another girl.
If our feet get hot, you grab the piano.
Shit. I think I started a fire.
Yeah, maybe ... No. God, I hate these cigarettes!
Look, if you want to leave...
Oh. Hi. Sorry.
Frank wasn't 'there.
Frank said ---
Ma didn't want it around. After.
Wow. But I still don't see how ...
I don't know. Maybe he thought some rich guy was gonna try and call her.
He calls her, asks her to marry him, she thinks he's crazy, he asks her again, she still thinks he's crazy but says yes anyway, and the next thing you know he's got his brothers down there and they're tearing the thing right off the curb.
So, what happened?
He had a mind that escalated things.
By the time he gets to the corner newstand, he's got her meeting some rich guy on the train, the rich guy's asked her to marry him, and he's reading about it in the morning edition.
They'd been out dancing all night and he took her to the train station -- she lived over in Brookhaven. Usually held ride with her, but this time he didn't. Anyway, he starts walking home, only as he's walking he starts getting nervous.
You sending me home?
Oh. So what's it doing here?
He called her.
The both of them? In there?
My father proposed to my mother in there.
Yeah, they got a convention for everything. At least he was clean. Boy, the guys I met when I was with the service, you wouldn't believe. The older ones, they were okay. Nice. Polite. Pulled the chair out for you. But the younger ones ... Mama used to say, dance with a man once, but if you can feel calluses on his fingers, don't dance with him again. She thought she had it all figured out. But she wasn't so smart. There are killers with palms like a baby.
Must've been a cheap date.
You know, I saw you guys once. You and Frank. At the Roosevelt.
How come you didn't close your eyes?
Like diamonds, huh? I never get over it. When I was a little girl, my mama'd stand me before the window and tell me to close my eyes and make a wish.Like I could reach out and grab all the lights of the city and string them into-a necklace for myself. She'd take my hand and when she closed her eyes, I don't know, it was like she really believed it.
I have to make him some chili. Okay?
Ed? How many people live here?
She's four feet tall. Ed?
Friend? What's she look like? Maybe I can help you find her.
Because I saw the other people! And they knew you were good! You were good, goddamnit!
How do you know?
You were good.
Let's make a deal. You shut up.
You were good.
It means you wouldn't know good if it came up and fucked you.
What's that supposed to mean?
Look. You don't know good. All right?
All I said was you were good.
I'm not upset.
What'd I say?
What's the matter?
Better than that.
I can keep the beat.
Practice. There are worse songs, you know. Not many, but a few.
How do you do it? Every night?
It's a shitty song.
Guess I got a little scattered.
Relax. We'll drop the song.
Just dinner and dance, right?
It wasn't business. It was pleasure.
Hey, business is business.
Yeah, well, thanks for sticking your head in.
No thanks. I never touch French cigarettes.
If you want, I got a pack in the room.
In and out.
Like a baby. You?
Yeah, well, I wish God would go a little easy on the trumpets.
It's the waves. God's music, my mother used to say. She was crazy for the ocean.
In and out.
It's okay. Last one.
Oh, sorry. With the light always on, it's hard to tell.
I guess in case one year they're not.
So why's he do it?
Aren't the kids asleep?
He do that every year?
Nothing personal --
I mean, that'd be too creepy. With us working together and all.
Hey, listen. You're not going soft on me, are you? I mean, you're not gonna start dreaming about me and waking up all sweaty and looking at me like I'm some kinda princess when I burp.
No. Thanks. She starts to move away, then stops and looks back.
You want me to walk you?
You kidding? We must've killed three pots in there. Anyway, I gotta get home. Rest the pipes.
Hey. You feel like a cup of coffee?
Mmm. Like kissing a rose. Well, au revoir.
Paris Opals. Twelve-and-a-half cents. I sat down with a pencil and added it one day. But I figure, if you're gonna be sticking something in your mouth, you might as well make it the best. Ah, here's a lost soul.
Nice place. Fulla velvet. Even the bedspreads. Damn! Two-fifty a pack and I go through 'em like toothpicks. Twelve-and-a-half cents a piece, you believe that?
Uh-uh. I never touch American cigarettes. What's tomorrow again?
Yeah,well, a11 I know is mother nature must be one crazy dame. Shit.
He takes after our mother.
I don't know. It's hard figuring you two as brothers. Seems like the hospital might've scrambled the babies somewhere.
His kid's sick.
Oh. Well, for Blackie then.
Because Blackie Carson books the Park and whenever we've needed a gig he's come through.
The Park? It's only two nights. Why throw away a night?
Look, they were all on their third Mai Tais by the time I got out there anyway.
Not for money. With my mother.
You never sang before?
He'll come around.
Hey, he's not sore, is he?
He's got blood in his eye.
It ain't always a blessing. My brother here?
Like clockwork. You got a good memory, Jackie.
Another five years, huh?
Yeah. The big boys sent it down yesterday.
Yeah. Jesus, you look like fucking royalty, Tommy.
No shit. It's the goddamn water. Kill an ox. I buy bottled for my Danny. You can't trust the taps.
Losing his teeth.
Ah, you know. Howsa pooch?
That's what I want to do. I want to make a snowman.
There were more flowers last year. Mr. Rinaldi down at the drugstore says it's going to snow by New Year's. Says he can feel it in his elbows. I hope it snows. I want to make a snowman. You ever make a snowman, Jack?
Merry Christmas, Jack.
Can I stay here tonight? Even if she comes here?
Eighty proof. What d'ya say? Think you can handle it?
Not so good.
Okay. How'd yours go?
How'd the show go?
He's just feeling sorry for himself. This is it, pal. Hear me? Two bucks a can.
I tried Cheerios this morning. He didn't even get up. Maybe they took out the wrong teeth.
Ever go to church?
What's a prom?
Well, let's get your first prom under the belt, okay?
Hey, what do you want to do? Grow a beard?
Older than me.
I hope not. He's already busted the springs in two chairs. Hey, what's this?
Maybe he'll ask your ma to marry him.
I guess it's getting serious.
I saw his stuff in the bathroom.
How do you know?
Oh. Bigfoot gets his out of a can.
The recent past.
What are they?
My days are not the old days, genius.
Is that what you used to do?
In the old days, every man had a shaving mug that he kept at the barber shop. Then, whenever he wanted a shave, held go down to the barber shop and there would be his mug, waiting for him.
What happened to the donut king?
Process server. Ma said it's like a lawyer only the hours are more regular. All I know's he came to take the TV one afternoon and ended up staying for dinner. And breakfast.
Sounds big. What's he do?
Guess they're up.
Did you break a cup, Jack?
He's losing his teeth.
Yes. Right. Eddie. How is he?
How's that dog of yours? What was his name?
I'm not much for sweets.
Huh? Oh, no.
Big piece or little?
So. How are you?
Good to see you, Ma.
John. It's good to see you.
He hit a guard.
What did he do?
They don't give two fucks about your health. The Clinic's where they send the real hard-cases for attitude adjustment. Look at O'Neill --
You mean if I get sick?
Not unless you're sent to the "Clinic."
Don't they ever let us take these boots off?
You look great, Castor. Really. Here -- I got a shot of your favorite -- Mescal. Even has the worm.
Do I look wasted -- asshole?
They never should've voted against U.S. statehood -- the scumbags. We heard you got wasted.
Waxy Wright. Didn't Jon Archer bust you for poisoning five members of the Canadian parliament?
What do you expect us to do -- shut down the city, evacuate two million people on a hunch?
I don't care -- he's manipulating it. That bomb has been built and it's out there, somewhere.
Jon, he's hooked up to a full-spectrum polygraph. No one has ever beaten --
Sorry, Admiral. It wasn't mentioned in the job description.
Try to kiss my butt just once before I'm transferred.
I'm complimenting you. Can't you ever just say "thanks"?
Yeah, real fine. Especially all the casualties.
Fine work, Jon.
You're not holding him right ... Caz ...
Yes ... someone might want to tear him apart -- snuff him out -- for revenge.
Five. No one knows you're his father. I thought someone might want to hurt him -- just to hurt you.
How old is he?
Go on, Adam ... I'm not asking you for anything -- I was never even going to tell you. But hell, I never thought I'd see you again, either.
Of course he is ... -- He's yours too.
Should be. It's yours.
I'm not the same person you remember.
Like I had a choice with that anal-retentive Jon Archer rising my ass at the probation hearing. At least he took an interest. You took off without leaving so much as a Post-it.
I hear you're a manicurist now -- got your own business and everything. I'm glad you've stayed clean.
Better than you bleeding all over my car upholstery. Trust me, Caz, you won't be here long.
You shouldn't have brought me here ... it's dangerous.
Where am I?
The last time I took orders from you I ended up with five years probation.
Jesus Christ, Castor.
Yeah -- me.
Uh-oh, somebody's in trouble.
Right ... like Jon Archer would ever let that happen.
Or reactivated the first one.
He's your brother, you figure it out. Maybe he made another bomb.
Why would he need more?
Yes. Pollux bought one along with the original batch. Obviously, he found a way to make more.
And this thing can grow it?
"Thanks?" I guess they really did fuck you up.
For being one helluva guy.
Being stuck in this rat-hole when it blows. Bro, what you built was a work of art. That little fucker belongs in the Smithsonian.
What's worse than losing five million bucks?
That's not the worst part.
Only one you've never broken.
And I bet I've kept that promise ...
After that. You promised you'd always take care of me.
Uh -- to kill the doctors?
Retching and convulsing while those bastards didn't even try to save her sorry ass. You gave her mouth to mouth -- man -- even then you had some constitution.
Oh, God -- Mom OD'd at County General.
A few blanks? Like what?
I don't know. Everything's jumbled -- so you're going to have to help me fill in a few blanks.
You porked his wife the day he was arrested. How could you forget that?
Do you know what it is to be in a coma? It fucks up everything -- including your memory! I can't even tell you why Dobbs jumped me yesterday!
Let me have a look.
I was in a coma, Pollux. I still feel like shit.
You shoot hoops like a chick, you smoke like a wuss, and -- I don't know -- you're different.
What do you mean?
So? The procnias averano is a South American bird. The flight here was only three hours! And yesterday a European swallow flew by! Where the fuck are we?
They haven't found it yet -- Listen, Pollux ...
You're not my brother. The brother I knew would never have been caught by that dumb fuck Archer. At least tell me the bomb is still going off.
Hey, bro ...
I started wondering -- if you couldn't switch back -- would it make a difference?
That's what they always say.
No life signs at all. He's a turnip.
How is he?
Jon, if I'm not there, he will be tipped off. I'll get rid of Jamie -- but you and I are in this together.
I know Lazarro -- the first person she'd call is "me." We can't take the chance of tipping Castor off.
Can't we call someone? Admiral Lazarro?
The bomb. He's reactivated it. And everyone there is going to die.
Jon, what is it?
You can't go. You can't be anywhere near that place.
-- Or maybe all at once. There's a get-together tonight at New St. Marks. For all the bureau chiefs and their families. He's insisted Jamie and I be there too.
He's going to kill off our bureau chiefs -- one-by-one.
What do you mean?
Our Pacific Rim stations. These numbers must be bounties. Castor's not wasting any time.
He freaked out when he thought I had seen this stuff. I think it's a list of cities -- Santiago, Ho Chi Minh City, Nandi ...
Whatever happened, whatever he did -- I know it's my fault and I know I can never make it up to you --
Christ, Jon! How could you do this to yourself? How could you do this to us? Do you know -- do you know what he did to me ...?
Tell me what happened on April 9th -- 13 years ago.
What more proof do you need?
I don't know that. Maybe Jon's already dead.
Why point it at me? I'm the real thing.
I took it from my fake husband.
An NSA surgeon gave me Castor's face. He handled the transplant, the vocal implant, everything. But somehow Castor came out of his coma -- and killed everyone who knew about the mission. But not before he was transformed into me.
How did he expect to do that?
-- I called, but I'm not Castor. I'm your husband.
I know you -- you're the one who called. You're Castor Troy. You killed my son --
Don't hang up ...
Whoever you are, don't call again.
Think about it, Eve! Everything he's done recently has been peculiar, right? He's said and done things your husband would never do ...
Okay, you're having an emotional crisis. You need to seek the help of a trained --
Never mind that! Just take Jamie and get out of that house. Don't tell anyone where you're going -- especially not him -- just GO.
Who is this?
Eve, listen carefully. The man you think is your husband -- isn't.
Is someone there?
You want me to tell you it's okay to leave? Okay, go on! GO!
I can't tell you ... except only I can do it.
You said you'd be here! You promised me -- you promised Jamie! What could be more important than that?
One last time. It's important ...
What are you saying? Oh, God -- you're going on assignment again ...
And you wouldn't be.
Five years ... I still can't get it out of my head -- an inch to the left, Matty would still be alive.
I don't know ... Maybe because you've never needed my help.
Were you there to catch me?
Totally -- you were being very, very bad. You went up in the plane and jumped out. You had a parachute, but it didn't open.
So you had a nightmare.
Actually -- in this dream -- I was your mother.
Must've been after we got engaged.
We were back in high school. You wanted to join the sky diving team, but I wouldn't let you.
... I was dreaming ...
So is finishing my residency and passing my boards ...
I'm late for surgery.
We need to talk.
Jon ... we just remember how it used to be. You staying for a while or is this just a piss-stop?
Is that what you think?
She's only 12. Some day she'll understand that apathy and absence are just special ways of saying "I love you."
Everything I say is wrong. I can't talk to her anymore.
Well, you tried. You failed miserably, but you tried.
Just make sure you're there. On time.
This is it, Jon. For the next 72 hours -- you're on your own.
Call Lazarro. Castor just came out of his coma.
Either way, come Saturday morning -- I'm pulling you the hell out of there.
Don't worry. I've done my homework. I'll get Pollux to talk.
You haven't got a chance in hell of fooling Pollux. Castor drinks, smokes and walks around with a 24-hour hard-on. He's nothing like you.
She doesn't know -- and she never will.
Jon, this is goddam insane. You can't go through with it. What about Eve?
The left, I think. Those surgeons in Witness Protection can fix things nobody's even broken yet.
Which ear was it?
He'd see that a mile away. The only person he'd talk to about that bomb is his brother. Unfortunately, turnips can't talk.
We can send in a plant -- try to get Pollux to spill the location.
Castor's still alive -- Technically. He's a turnip, on total life-support ...
Apparently, fine. He's coming into work. That's the good news ...
You said it, Jon, not me.
I'm not hiding in my work, if that's what you're saying.
I just asked you about making love to your wife, and you started talking about your job.
One of my informants spotted him -- right here in the city.
You're supposed to make time. When was the last time you told her you love her? When was the last time you two had sex?
I've been working night and day. I haven't had time.
You missed the last three, including her birthday. Your wife's gripe sheet.
Like gangbusters, doc. Okay, I missed the last one.
How is the "date night" idea going over with Eve?
Not if I kill you first ...
Give up, Castor. People are going to find out.
I don't know. How long before it kills us?
Vacuum-sealed globe ... shouldn't take long.
What -- what are you doing?
Too late, your kid worships me. And your wife -- she's an animal. Even I can't keep up with her.
Stay away from my family!
You've given me the freedom I haven't had in years, and the power to make it pay off in ways I never thought possible. But hell -- this is America. One day a pauper, the next day, a prince. And I owe it all to you. Now if you'll excuse me, I've got an important government job to abuse, -- and a beautiful wife to fuck. Excuse me -- I mean "make love to."
What are you going to do!
Let's not confuse things anymore. I'm Archer. You're Castor. But if you need proof --
What are you going to do, Castor?
Of course I killed them, you DUMB FUCK. And torched every shred of evidence that proves who you really are. Swallow this one, Commander. You are going to be in here for the rest of your life.
You killed them?
I believe the phrase Dr. Hoag used was "titanically remote." Who knows? Maybe the trauma of having my face cut off pulled me out. Or maybe God really is on my side after all. By the way, I know you don't get the papers in here.
It can't be. It's impossible.
Don't count on it.
You can tell me all about it -- from your prison cell.
You can't kill me, Jon. I've got something going this Saturday night ... it's gonna be worse than anything God ever dumped on the Pharaohs -- and only I can stop it.
Mention my family once more and you're dead.
What're you gonna do with me gone? You'll drive your wife and kid nuts! I bet your daughter is just about ripe by now. What's her name, Janie?
You're under arrest. Incredibly, you still have the right to remain silent --
What's it to you? I declare it. Here I am, back in the States for less than a month --
And how much will your "fun" net you this time?
Jon, I'm getting a little annoyed by your obsessive need to spoil my fun.
Or what? You'll have me fired?
Walton, you have to let me see the warden --
Archer cut him a deal for turning state's evidence. He's free.
Pollux is -- what?
You better be nice, Castor. You could get mighty lonely now that Pollux is gone.
I'm going to have you fired.
So's a noose. Now keep your mouth SHUT.
They're too tight.
Castor Troy almost strangled me to death. Where the hell were you?
What's the matter with your voice, Commander?
Just saving the tax-payers the cost of a trial. So take a hike.
I've never been more certain of anything. Get everyone in position. -- And get the word out -- shoot to kill.
What makes you so sure this guy's gonna set up his own brother?
We've got him sighted. Okay, Pollux, pull out.
Trust me, he's already here. Get going!
SFPD? Castor isn't stupid enough to come back to the city.
Yeah, mom cut me some slack -- but I decided ... I'd like to be here for you. Here, mom. You can have it back. Thanks, though.
There's my little darling. The night wouldn't be complete without you.
I mean like protection.
You mean like ... condoms?
Did it look like I was siding with him? Did it? You want to play with the bad boys, you better be prepared. Do you have protection?
You haven't changed at all! Some guy tries to rape me -- and you side with him!
What are you -- stupid?
Like you know anything about it.
Get a higher arc on the ball, Jamie. And for Chrissake, square your shoulders to the basket.
You'll be seeing a lot of changes around here. Daddy's a new man.
When did you start smoking?
I won't tell mom if you don't.
Clarissa left those here.
Screw your boundaries, Janie. You have something I want.
Get rid of them.
You've got someone in your office.
Let's try to be a little less formal from now on, shall we?
You always call me Miss Brewster.
That's your name, isn't it?
Well, I saw you -- Kim.
Oh -- Commander. I didn't see you ...
You can't blame me for trying.
You're both in custody until there's a DNA fingerprinting and we can prove who's who. Now put the gun down.
Obviously someone else knows it! Get everybody back to their posts -- NOW!
It was confirmed by your personal security code. Nobody knows that code but you!
Backing you up! Didn't you track Castor to the Army Street Terminal?
Where should I be? Where's everyone else?
Commander, what are you doing here?
What the fuck do you think happened? Castor Troy just shot him! What are you waiting for? GO!
Escaped? From Erewhon? I want everyone on this -- our entire force and the SFPD.
You picked a helluva day to leave your beeper off!
Like I fucking care? I'm not just sitting here!
A lot of people think you're a snitch. It's dangerous ...
What about me?
You'll need to recultivate that virus.
Good, because I checked your salary -- and it bites. How the everyday working-class stiff survives in today's economy is something I'll never ...
All of them do. We'll kill twelve birds with one bomb. And we'll be rich.
Most of the current chiefs -- they must have pretty hefty prices on their heads.
We gut the organization -- and rebuild it with more reliable friends.
Yeah -- it's Santa's Magic fucking Village. Your present's in here.
Eight pocket stingers ... seven piper uzis ... six cobra carbines ... five - net - launch-ers ...
There's fun, bro. Then there's FUN.
I'm just having some fun.
Are you TRYING to give us away? For somebody with such a big brain, you think awfully small.
Don't worry, nobody knows I'm inside. Check it out. Remember that fat fuck agent who roughed us up in Thailand? He's being treated for bone cancer at the V.A. Thanks to the miracle of NSA grid-technology ... -- Ooops! His radiation does just quadrupled.
You're supposed to be snitching, making me look legit.
Don't get mad, but I just went for a little stroll through the company switches.
Trust me. You're gonna love it ...
No -- the best part is, since it's a government job -- they can't fire you! But how can you be sure you'll get the appointment?
-- I'll be one of the most powerful men in the country. Didn't matter how much cash I made pulling wet jobs -- I was still too low on the food chain -- always with somebody like Jon Archer after me. The best part is -- I'm the GOOD guy.
You better get used to it. That bitch Lazarro is getting kicked upstairs. Guess what white-bread family man is going to replace her?
I can't even look at you without wanting to vomit.
Business first. I went into the "Warrants" system and erased your records. You're clean. In fact, you're now on the informant payroll.
You merciless bastard!
Okay, then. I leave it in your able hands.
No. Most of them are in transit by now. I'm heading over to the hotel to personally oversee security.
I just thought that -- under the circumstances -- you might want to postpone the meeting with the station chiefs.
What is it, Admiral? I'm under the gun here.
I just heard about Castor's fratricide -- rather poetic, don't you think?
Jon, you're starting to remind me -- of me. Congratulations.
Done. In fact, I was already plotting about the best way to meet the foreign bureau chiefs.
You'd have to start immediately.
I had doubts too. I always looked at a desk as though it were a ball-and-chain. But something happened ...
Me. I have doubts about your ability to stick with what is essentially a desk job.
D.C.'s very high on giving you the promotion. There's just one problem.
Just following your example.
You've made us look pretty good in the past week. And the way you handled the press --
You're the only person in this place who can see right through me.
Normally, I would. But today ...
Look at you, Jon -- at your age -- an American hero! I'd buy you a drink but I know you'd just turn me down.
Wait a second -- you hated Madonna. Didn't you?
Back then -- who wasn't?
Remember this from our junior prom? Boy, were you ever mad for Madonna.
Sure, baby -- go anywhere you want. But I have to give you an escort. Security reasons.
I'm going to the powder room.
Good. Because I'm fed up.
I'll deal with her later.
That's what I'd like to know. She stole fifty dollars from my purse and took off.
Okay, I have a confession to make. But you aren't going to like it.
I disagree. You think I've been acting strange. Like a completely different person.
What are you doing?
I'll have a talk with her. By the way, you never said anything about last night ...
Yes, Jon. That Karl.
Oh, that Karl.
Great? He's 17 -- you told her to stay away from him.
I think Jamie's been seeing Karl again.
Okay, if you insist. But -- you drive.
The world can wait, Jon. You're going.
I'm late. Gotta protect and serve the world, y'know.
Jon, it's the tenth. I know how difficult it is for you, but we still have to go.
What's on your mind?
Call me spontaneous.
You're wearing your suit --
So you see, I'm not going anywhere. Unless it's upstairs with you ...
... That's great.
I'm replacing Lazarro. Nice, safe desk job -- just like you wanted.
Can't you see I'm trying to change? I sent Jamie off because I wanted to be alone with you. I wanted to see the candle-light dance in your beautiful --
You always say that -- then you leave.
I'm not going anywhere.
Isn't that what all this is about? Letting Jamie go out, cooking me dinner, -- your next assignment?
So -- how long will you be gone this time?
You wouldn't even sip champagne at our wedding. We were underage -- you wouldn't break the law. Remember what my brother called you?
Wouldn't be the first time -- or would it?
I think -- you're trying to get me drunk.
They say love is blind. Do you think that's true?
Why do I feel like I'm on a blind date?
-- I've got to study.
Hurry up -- the salad's getting warm and the pasta's getting cold.
Don't I usually kiss my wife?
What is with you tonight?
Have fun at work.
Jon -- I don't have time to play games. There're leftovers in the fridge.
The hospital? Oh, that's right -- you're a doctor. Ha-ha.
It didn't work out as planned. Where are you off to?
As much as ever. Nothing.
What do you know about it?
What happened to your big "assignment"?
You were supposed to be here half an hour ago...the emergency strategy session? Your trip to Aspen? Theyre all panicked here...
Hey Santa, where are you? Everybodys here.
That'll be a nice little holiday treat.
I'll leave from the office tomorrow afternoon. Call the group. Schedule an emergency strategy session for noon.
She's probably just having a fit of nostalgia. You know, lonely Christmas Eve, call the one that got away, that kind of thing.
No?! You almost married this woman. Aren't you even curious what she wants?
And look where it's led you... I'm gonna get her on the phone...
I took the road less traveled, Adelle.
Stop Jack, I'm getting all weepy.
God, no. I thought about it for practically the entire flight...
So you left her? Just like that?
She didn't want me to go to London. We're standing at the airport saying goodbye and she asks me to stay.
Almost married. And almost a junior broker at E.F. Hutton...
Kate Reynolds was my girlfriend in college. I almost married her...
Yeah Jack, her assistant...
Her assistant said you could call her at home after eight.
Ooh, my suits are ready...
Oh, and Oxxford called...
You're a ray of sunshine, Jack.
You too? This holiday's about giving, Adelle. And I'm giving everything I've got to this deal, so in a way, I'm more Christmassy than anyone... Lifesaver?
So what are we gonna do, Jack?
Is this another one of those Sun Tzu Art of War tricks?
But I think I like you better this way...
Its not good. Bob Thomas has secretly been talking to a European drug company. Were not sure which one, Julias on it right now. Word is theyre willing to let him buy a minority stake and keep running the entire company. The Global people are up in arms. They say we shouldve been prepared for this. Were in trouble here, Jack...
Whats going on here?
Jack, are you okay?
Oh, Im hearing you, Alan. Thats not the problem. The problem is that what you think is yours, is really mine. And I dont care how low on the totem pole I start, I will get it back... So do yourself a favor and dont get too attached to that view because sometime soon, maybe very soon, you and your French country antiques, your chintz sofa, and your little play pen are gonna be moving out of that office.
I dont think youre hearing me.
Good for you. Why shouldnt you protect whats yours.
...thats our war room. We did seven major deals last year, three of them hostile.
You drink about sixteen Diet Cokes a day. Youre an excellent father, but you feel guilty about the time you spend away from home. You drink bourbon, but you offer your clients scotch...
What about me?
Take you, for instance...
Im sure you do...
And I know people.
Its okay, Alan. I get it. Im in your shoes, Im thinking exactly the same thing...but heres the thing. Business is business. Wall Street, Main Street, its all just a bunch of people getting up in the morning, trying to figure out how the hell theyre gonna send their kids to college. Its just people...
Im not trying to knock the tire business, Jack.
Look, I know our paltry little two million in sales is about what you spend on office supplies in a year. And I know some regional trucking company account is nothing compared to a sixty billion dollar merger...
Really. So youre projecting what, a tad over two million?
Well, Alan, I think were gonna have a banner year. Sales are up almost twenty percent in the first quarter and we just landed a major trucking company account.
Uh huh...one point seven. And what do you project for this year?
We did one point seven million in total revenue...
Mind if I ask what kind of sales you did last year? Ballpark...
Uh...we actually get about sixty percent of our business from automotive service.
Uh huh. The retail end, I understand.
Thats right. And auto supply...
A broker? Really. And now youre in the tire business?
I was a sales associate, at E.F. Hutton.
Uh...actually, yes. Two... good ones.
You have kids, Jack?
I can see that, Alan.
Please, call me Alan. We try to cultivate a casual atmosphere around here...
Because my gift comes with ten zeroes at the end...
I don't want you to be sorry, Alan, I want you to be excited. I want my gift to be the first one you open this year. You know why?
You're right, Jack. Sorry... Jack approaches Alan.
I don't know. Maybe...
You think I like being here on Christmas Eve, Alan?
Is that tonight?
Sorry, Jack. I told Dee and the kids I'd be home by dinner. You know, it being Christmas Eve and all.
Im not worried, Mom. Hes still learning our ways...
Fightings a part of it, Annie. You know that, right?
Thats right. Okay, lets make a quick stop at the kids shoe department, pick up my watch from the battery place, then Ill run into the linen store...
Mary Janes, Mom. You promised.
Were almost done here...
Mommy needs five more minutes in la la land. That could be her present...
Mom, dont you think we need to open the presents?
Youre jumping, sweetheart...
No, honey. Go back to sleep.
Is it morning yet?
Ringing my bell...
What are you doing?
Ah. A classic...
Mary Had A Little Lamb.
Very nice. What is it?
Right. Thats a major oversight... So if Im Kate...I cant really afford the finer things, my husbands career is a crushing disappointment to me, Im trapped in suburbia...
Thats good but...you did forget the anniversary.
Maybe theres a jewelry store back at the mall. I could get her a pair of earrings or something.
Mom liked it.
Dont you think thats a little gimmicky?
One year he had a solar system named after her...
Not bad...I shoulda warned you. Dad always does something really special for their anniversary.
Thats where you work.
Big Eds? Big Eds Tires? Why...?
Where do I go now?
Got it. Good tip.
Try not to be late because kids dont like to be the last one picked up.
Five thirty. Okay.
I have winter camp until four, then ballet until five thirty.
This is day care. Its where babies go when their parents are at work.
You promise not to kidnap me and my brother and implant stuff in our brains?
I think I could figure it out.
You know how to make chocolate milk?
On a case by case basis...
Do you like kids?
Uhh...thanks...slightly better looking though, right?
The aliens...In the mother ship. You look just like him.
They did a pretty good job.
I dont know...
Wheres my real dad?
This isnt my real life. Its just a glimpse...
Yeah...I guess I just wanted you to know, we couldve been really good friends...
You never really talked to me. I wanted to talk to you, man...
Yes, thats it...yes, we went to high school together.
Of course. Jack Campbell. I went to high school with you...you played baseball, right? Youre doing well...
Wait a second... Jack...Jack...
I never won anything in bowling.
We bowl together. Were bowlers ...we won a championship...were winners.
Howd you know my name?
Tell me you recognize me, Arnie. Please...
I dont care if youre Tim Allen with your fancy car and all your tools, you still cant park here.
Its me, Jack...
Hey, you cant park that thing here.
Its your birthday? Today? Whats your name? Where were you born?
So Jack, its your wifes birthday, got anything to say to her?
All Im saying it there isnt a guy in Union County who wouldnt give his left nut to be married to Kate...
Hey, is that really necessary?
Cmon, Evelyn Thompsons got no class. She doesnt marry Dr. Steve, the womans living in a trailer.
Screw the rules. Im talking about the choice.
Im telling you, those rules dont apply to me, Arn.
Look, maybe Im not as good a consigliere as you are but you have to trust me on this one. A little flirtations harmless but youre playing with fire here. The Fidelity Bank and Trust is a tough creditor. You make a deposit somewhere else, they close your account forever.
It wouldnt really be cheating... Its complicated.
Whoa...whoa...wait a second, Jack. Youre not actually gonna cheat on Kate?
So could you write down her exact address?
Oh yeah... What is it about you?
She said that?
She wants to have an affair with me.
She is relentless.
I just saw Evelyn Thompson.
Hey Jack, youre all flush. I guess that seventy-one took a lot outta you.
Youre right. Why am I so competitive!? Compensation, I guess. Look, just focus, Jack. You can still pick up the spare...
Hey, Im doing the best I can... Id like to see you hit a squash ball after seventeen beers...
Wheres your follow through? Wheres your stance?
Jesus, Jack, this is a league match, for gods sake!
Its just two kids, right?
Look, you fit the profile exactly. Thirties, house, kids, financial responsibilities. You start thinking...this isnt the life I dreamt about. Wheres the romance, wheres the joie de vivre? Suddenly, every lingerie ad in the Newark Star Ledger represents a life you cant have...
Kates my wife...
You see, its like were in each others heads...
Its not Kate, is it?
I dont think so.
Trouble at work?
What am I saying? You dont need to hear that... All I meant was a lot of people have a hard time dealing with all the forced reverie, thats all. Is that you?
I read somewhere that the suicide rate doubles during the holidays...
Im having kind of a bad day.
Maybe I dont say it enough but you moving in next door to me...
Were friends, arent we?
I know, I moved the Barca-lounger into the corner. Its throwin everybody off. What do you think?
I mean it. From what I can tell, were a mom and pop operation, were already over-extended in sales, and any price advantage we could offer would easily be matched by a larger supplier...
Ive got all the time in the world...
Got a minute, Jack?
The Caddy? Why dont you take your own damn car!
Look, can I just borrow your car?! I promise itll be returned!
What the hell are you talking about? Whats he talking about?
Wheres my car?! Wheres my Ferrari!?
You know what the word glimpse means, J? Its by nature an impermanent thing.
Ive got kids, Im going home...
You cant do this. You cant keep coming in and out of peoples lives, messing things up...
Look Jack Im late. Id love to help you out some more but I gotta go handle my business... Happy trails.
But what do I do?
Do I look like I live in a bottle?
Whats this, a signal? Will you come whenever I ring it?
Look Jack, in my experience the best way people deal with this is to just relax and breathe through it...let it come to you.
Thats it? Thats all I get?! A glare?!
Figure it out? Figure what out?!
Because you got to figure it out for yourself. Are you listening to me?
Do I look like I need your money. It doesnt work like that and I cant tell you why.
Look, I just want my life back. Now whats it gonna take? You wanna talk turkey? Lets talk turkey! How much money...?
As long as it takes to figure it out. Which, in your case, could be considerable.
How much time?!
Figure it out. You got plenty of time.
I asked you a direct question! A glimpse of what?!
Look, eventually, everybody gets one...some of em take a couple seconds... ...some of em take a lot longer...
I glimpse? A glimpse of what!? What glimpse?! Glimpse!
Its a glimpse, Jacko.
Please. Just tell me whats happening to me. In plain English. None of that mumbo jumbo...
You? What about me? Im working hard for you here, Jack. On Christmas too! Now you did a good thing last night, intervening that way. I was moved...
Give me my goddamn life back!
Everyone else in that store is a statue, they see their lives passing in front of their eyes, but not you. Youre making a business deal...
You mean because you thought I was cocky Im now on a permanent acid trip?!!
No? Cmon, Jack...Ive got everything I need, I dont have regrets, thats just not for me... sound familiar?
Brought what on myself?! I didnt do anything!
Look, I dont know what youre getting so worked up about, you did this...you brought this on yourself.
What the hell is happening to me?!
Might wanna fasten your seat belt, Jack...
Basically, its my car now. Get in.
Its a callable asset seized in accordance with the acquisition by-laws of your alt-fate contract...
Thats my car! You stole my car!
Miss me, Jack?
Oh man, I'm gonna enjoy this one... Just remember, Jack, you did this. You brought this on yourself...
Sure it's about you. But it's about society, too.
You still think this is about me, don't you?
Look, I'm not saying you'd be able to do it without some hard work...
Wow. It must be great being you. You got it all.
I've got everything I need.
You just said everyone needs something.
Yeah? What do you need?
Everyone needs something.
Oh man, you're serious... This man thinks I need to be saved!
Wait a minute, wait a minute... you're tryin' to save me?
I mean there must be programs out there, opportunities...
Yeah, in most cases that'd be true.
I'm just saying that you seem like a smart guy. At a certain point you're gonna do something, and then there's no turning back...
You want to talk about regrets, you're talking to the wrong person.
What do you want to carry that gun around for, anyway? You're just gonna do something you'll regret...
Okay, Jack. Nice doing business with you... Cash is about to take off...
I don't do that. That's just not for me...
So you're telling me, you've got a gun to your head and you don't think for one second, what if this, what if that, maybe I shouldn't do this, I shoulda done that.
A lucky streak, huh?
There's no way I was gonna die in that deli... Let's just say I've been on a lucky streak lately.
You know you seem pretty relaxed for a guy who just had a gun pulled on him.
I call all you white guys "Jack."
How'd you know my name was Jack?
Damn, you are the real thing...
Like I said, it's a business deal...
Look, I'm talking about a business deal here. I buy the ticket for two hundred, take it to a store where the guy behind the counter... ...doesn't have a death wish ...I just made myself a quick thirty eight dollars.
Yes you do...
DO YOU WANNA DIE?!
You first generation, xenophobic, money-theistic, hot pastrami sandwich making...
You leave now. Take ticket somewhere else. Next customer in line...!
Get out, I call 911.
What!? Look at the ticket...!
You draw lines with pencil! I know about this!
What're you talkin' about?
Ticket bad. You draw in lines with pencil.
...06...14...18...48...right there. Four numbers...that's two hundred and thirty eight dollar... Merry Christmas and shit...
Okay, youre right, weve been dancing around this for years...
It would help me if we were.
Are we finally being honest?
Is there something going on between us?
Are we what, Jack?
Youre a nurse?
Need a nurse?
Something like that.
Very funny. I saw you out there on lane five. What do you have the flu or something?
Well do whatever it is you do well, and just...just do it. Excuse me...
Mushroom puffs arent the only thing I do well...
Cmon, as soon as I put them down, youre gonna grab a couple...you always do...
I dont think so, thank you...
I thought I saw you notice it at the kids recital.
Like the dress...?
Maybe youre not hearing me. I am Jack Campbell... Right here. Jack Campbell, President...
I dont care who you are. Its Christmas and like I told you the building is closed.
Look, I dont know whats going on here but I am Senior Vice President of this company.
Mr. Mintz? I dont think so...buildings closed pal. Youll have to come back tomorrow.
Frank. Wheres Alan Mintz? Is he here yet?
Whoa, whoa, whoa...hold it right there...
Thanks. To you too...
Merry Christmas to you, sir...
Nice night for it. I'll have Louis send your car home.
I'm thinking I might walk tonight, Frank.
Why dont you let me take this one, Kenny?
You want me to handle him? I think Im ready...
If youre into that kind of conspicuous consumption...
Kates on two, Jack. Nice ride...
Well, Im just a little confused right now about why I work here...
Here we are, mag wheels... Hey Jack, are you sure youre okay?
I mean sales has always been a feeder for M and A, always...
Thats the kind of thing you can really build on...
No, I didnt...thats great.
...I was the number one junior sales associate at E.F. Hutton in 1988. Did you know that?
Uh...sure Jack... Right back there...
Do I have a private office somewhere in the building?
What are you talking about? Its me, Jack Campbell. Penthouse C. I put you into commercial paper!
Sorry, pal. Entrance is for residents and guests only...
Just until the Deutsche Mark turns...
About four grand. And a bottle of twenty five year old scotch from Mrs. Johnson in 9D. Im putting it all in commercial paper like you said.
Howd you do this year, Tony?
Merry Christmas, Mr. Campbell.
We have two kids, Annie and Josh...
Dont do this, Jack... But he continues...
What do you want from me? You want me to tell you everything that happened was okay?
Please. Lets just go have a cup of coffee. Thats all Im asking for. Im sure theres another flight to Paris tonight.
Dont get on that plane!
You cant go!
Not exactly... Can we just take a minute here? Maybe get a cup of coffee or something...?
No, Jack, I never got married. You?
Youre not married, are you?
Not with what they pay me...
So youre not at a non- profit firm?
Thats the one...
To Paris. Paris, France.
Uh huh. To Paris. My firm has an office there and Im going to be heading it up.
Im moving to Paris...it was right here... Its a box marked Jack. I put it in the stack for the Salvation Army...
Whats going on?
Dont worry about it, Jack...
Its good to see you...
You look great.
Jack...God, its been so long...You look...
I promise. Come to bed, honey.
Promise me again...
I promise, Jack...
Please, just promise me youll do that. You have to promise, Kate. Because if you dont, then its like it never happened and I dont think I could live with that.
Are you okay, Jack?
I need you to remember me, Kate. How I am right now, right this very moment. I need you to put that image in your heart and keep it with you, no matter what happens.
Youve been Jack Campbell. And thats always a good thing...
But Ive done some good things too, havent I?
Its been interesting, thats for sure.
Look, youre making this into something its not. This isnt a referendum on our lives, Kate. Its a step forward... Dont you see? Im talking about us finally having a life other people envy.
Dont do that...
Then get a goddamn snow blower!
I can do that. I want to do that. For all of us. I need to do that as a man... Think about it. No more lousy restaurants, no more clipping coupons, no more shoveling snow...
No, this is the center of the universe. If I were living in Roman times, I would live in Rome, where else? Today, America is the Roman Empire and New York is Rome itself. John Lennon.
I cant believe you want to move back into the city. I thought the reason we left was because we didnt want to raise the kids here?
This is New York City, its like the needy people capital of the world. Those Jersey clients of yours arent a tenth as pathetic as the ones you could get here...
Jack, what could you possibly be thinking? What about my job?
Im talking about the best schools in the country here, Kate...
Annie goes to a great school.
I dont think so. This is going to be a better life for all of us, honey. Well put Annie and Josh in private schools...
Are you out of your mind?
What are you talking about, Jack?
Youre talking to their new Vice President of Mergers and Acquisitions.
A company called P.K. Lassiter and Associates Investment House uses it to attract new executives...
A perk for what?
This place is a perk, Kate.
For the week?
So whats the big surprise? You didnt rent this place for the weekend, did you?
Its like a museum.
Pretty incredible, isnt it?
I dont think Id fight you on that one...
I could stay here forever...
Thats all I wanted to hear...
My god, all this time...I never stopped loving you...
I already told you you were gonna get lucky, Jack...
Im out of the doghouse?
I dont know how you did it, hoss, but you pulled it off.
Ill just full yours up to the top. Happy anniversary, sweetheart.
You know champagne makes me do crazy things.
What are you sure about?
Imagine having a life where everything was easy...where you asked for things and people just brought them to you...
God, sometimes I think it would be so nice not to have to stretch ground beef or maybe drive a car with a CD player...
I guess...some of them are probably faking.
I mean yes, I help people that need it...
Your pay check is a disgrace to pay checks.
My office is a dump, I answer my own phone...and youve seen my pay check.
Thats a big one for me, too.
Cmon, Jack, you think there arent mornings when I wake up and wonder what the hell Im doing in New Jersey...
But you always seem so certain.
I think its good to be a little unsure about who you are. Its very human.
I never used to be like this, Kate. I had it all figured out. No doubts, no regrets.
No. Well, maybe a few things. But mostly just different...
Worse, you mean...
I used to be so sure about everything, you know? I knew exactly who I was and what I wanted. Then one morning I woke up and suddenly it was all different...
Are you sure?
Now Im worried...just say it. Whatever it is well deal with it.
I think it may help us but theres a slight chance it could make things worse.
I need to tell you something.
But Im gettin close, right?
You are so not off the hook yet, slick.
How do you even know about this place?
Whats the difference? Im taking my baby out for our anniversary, damn the costs...
Jack...can we afford all this?
Ill fix it. Ill go out right now and get you something. Ill make it right.
You actually forgot our anniversary.
I know that, but...
What are you talking about? You never wait all day. You can barely wait until its light out.
Heres the thing. I really hadnt planned on giving you your...uh... anniversary gift until tonight. You know, anniversarys good all day...
Enjoy it, sweetheart...
You really are incredible...
I found it at an outlet store. I know its a knock-off, but I think itll look great on you...
No, open it...
Maybe I should wait...
Wait a minute. Youre my wife?
What? You make me hot...
Nice, Jack. Youre sweeping me off my feet.
Oh yeah, youre a bad girl, baby... You make me so hot...Im gonna take you to that special place...
Then say it...just say it to me...!
Yeah, baby, I know what you like to hear...
Cmon, you know what I like to hear...
Say it, Jack...
Its good, right?
I want it...
You want the cake!?
Sorry, Jack. Its too important to me.
Thats my piece. I was saving it because I got nauseated from that store bought chicken.
You mean this chocolate cake?
Long, boring, and generally pretty sad. Arnie seemed to enjoy it... Hey, wheres that chocolate cake...?
How was the game, honey?
How would you look at it?
If you want to look at it that way...
Our life in a nutshell...
Thats why I work for Big Ed?
Jack, stop that. I'm still mad at you... ...who knows what wouldve happened if you hadnt stepped in at the store.
You had a heart attack?
The trek out to the hospital every day didnt help either... You were great. Surviving the heart attack was one thing...
You cant really raise a kid in an apartment in the Village...
Charles Street? In the Village? When we were living in Greenwich Village...? Great times. Whyd we ever leave?
We were young... Remember that little place on Charles Street we used to go to?
No, I love Annie. We had a lot of good times, didnt we?
Good, Jack. Maybe well keep her.
Sure. I really like Annie.
I think it worked out okay, dont you?
Surprise. Were pregnant... Yeah...that mustve been...I mean that was very unexpected. But what are you gonna do, right?
Well...Annie for one.
Maybe youre not. The Jack Campbell I married wouldnt need a $2400 suit to make himself feel better about his life, but if thats what its gonna take, then buy it. Just buy the goddamn suit ...we can take the money out of the kids college fund.
Look, Im sorry. Im sorry I was such a saint before and Im such a prick now. Maybe Im just not the same guy I was when we got married...
I cant believe its not a disappointment to you! Jesus, Kate, I couldve been a thousand times the man I became. How could you do this to me? How could you let me give up on my dreams like this?!
Its sad to hear your life is such a disappointment to you, Jack.
Whats in it for me? Where are my Mary Janes?
I pick up the kids, walk the dog, which by the way, carries the added bonus of carting away her monstrous crap...I play with the kids, take out the garbage, get six hours of sleep if Im lucky, and then it starts all over again...and why is it that I always have to drive everyone everywhere? I spend practically my entire day in that slow as hell mini-van listening to Raffi tapes and trying to figure out how the cup holders work...Im sick of it.
I wake up in the morning covered in dog saliva...I drop the kids off, spend eight hours selling tires retail...retail, Kate.
Do you have any idea what my life is like?
Those shoes were twenty five dollars. Cmon, take it off. Well go to the food court and get one of those funnel cakes you like.
She got those shoes...
$2,400?! Are you out of your mind?
Its an unbelievable thing. Wearing this suit actually makes me feel like a better person. Im gonna buy it...
I mean...wow...off the charts great.
Look at me like you havent seen me every day for the last twelve years...
How can you do that?
I mean back in college, you were a very pretty girl, theres no question about that. But this... ...youve really grown into a beautiful woman...
This is good stuff, Jack, keep it coming...
No, Im serious...youre really stunning...
Whatever you say...honey.
Its ten thirty, Jack. By eleven youre gonna be sprawled out on the bed snoring your head off. We dont have time for wining and dining.
Shouldnt we grab some dinner first? Maybe a bottle of wine...?
That is the general idea, yes...
Wait a second. You want me, dont you?
Im working on a new deal now...
I thought we had a deal about you watching CNBC in bed.
Hey! I was watching that!
Well thats just great...those little monkeys can be a real handful...
Jack. I said the kids are asleep...
Uh...that babys crying...
...my feet are hurtin...
Youre having a bad day, Ill go with you...actually, theres no way in hell youre gettin me back out there...
But its twenty degrees outside...
Fine, shes the kids dog. Lets go wake Josh, see if he wants to walk her.
No, shes not.
Shes your dog, Jack.
Youre kidding me...
Here you go...
Pro bono. You dont get paid at all. Nobody makes a dime. Well, bravo...
Yes, Im fine. Its just this god awful football phone! Who has a phone like this anyway?!
Funny, Jack. Im laughing on the inside.
Christ... Where the hell is the bathroom?
Because youll be here.
Telling my mother she doesnt have to stay with the kids.
What are you doing?
Trust me on this Kate. I really dont think going to a party is the right move for me at the present time.
You look forward to this party all year. Whats with you today?
Party? Oh no, I cant go to a party...
Look, we dont have time for this right now, well talk about it later. Now get dressed... Youre not wearing that to the Thompsons party. I dont care how hilarious you think it is...
Look, you dont understand. I woke up here...and this is very strange ...this is not my house...
Jack...dont even start...
Because thats where I live.
The city? New York City? Why?
I was in the city.
Where were you?
I dont know! Please stop yelling at me!
What kind of man does that!?
Are you okay?
You hear me complaining about that?
I can't seem to let go of you...
We're being responsible. Go. Get on the plane.
No, youre right. What are we doing?
Go. Im sorry, you should just go...
Right, for us. But...Im afraid that if you get on that plane...
For us, Kate.
Believe me I know what an incredible opportunity this is for you...
You mean dont go at all? What about my internship?
Dont go, Jack...
I know weve talked about this a thousand times and we both agree that going to London is the right thing to do. But in my heart... this feels wrong.
About the plane? What do you think its gonna crash? Dont say that...
I have a bad feeling about this.
I also put side two of London Calling on there...
All in one tape?
Every one of these songs will remind you of me in a slightly different way...
A shelter?! Im the richest guy in the building...Ive got twice the square footage you have!
And sleep you shall. Noblesse oblige is not dead. Not yet anyway...Come, lets get you some help. Surely there must be a shelter somewhere in this city.
Thank you, Betty. I know if I can just sleep this off, Ill be fine...
You know you could never satisfy me the way he does...
Its because Im shy, Betty. So, when are you going to leave that old corpse Mr. Peterson and run away with me?
Hello Jack. You dont have to stop singing on my account...
Okay...you smoke Hoyo de Monterreys. Youre a scotch man, single malt, not because its trendy but because youve been doing it for forty years, and you stay with what works. You have two great loves in your life, your horses and this company. You wept openly the day the Dow hit ten thousand...
Thats easy. Youve seen my car.
For one thing, you like expensive things.
Youre a little tougher, Peter.
He certainly has your number, Alan.
But youre not interested in boutique dollars... I get it...
...were really more of a boutique operation, as you can see...
Not exactly. Ive seen you on CNBC. You look taller in real life...
Do I know you?
Then leave it in the past. Old flames are like old tax returns. You keep `em in the file cabinet for three years and then you cut `em loose.
Not by a long shot.
You suddenly having trouble getting dates?
Hey Peter, lemme ask you a question. An old girlfriend calls you out of the blue on Christmas Eve...
Where is he?
I need you, tiger..
Why are you staring at my breasts, Peter?
Someone's gonna have to nurse him through this.
That'll happen when you're about to spend thirty billion dollars on some aspirin...
I just got a call from Terry Haight. Bob Thomas is nervous...
And God love you for it.
That's because I'm a heartless bastard who only cares about money.
Peter. I don't see you rushing home to trim the tree.
Im sorry, no...
Hey, my wifes in the kitchen. You got a cigarette?
Is there anything I can do for you?
Hey, are you okay?
Kate? No, theres no one here named Kate. Is that good enough for you?
Is Kate here? Does Kate live here?!
Can I help you?
You wont regret it... Tommy! Set Mr. Conlin up with four B.F. Goodrich G-Force T/As... ...and give him ten percent off for having the best costume...
Okay, Ill take them...
For the money, theyre hands down the best radial we carry...
Christmas? It cant be Christmas...
Thats totally see through...
If it's something you feel strongly about.
Maybe I can try and sneak away some time tomorrow morning... Okay?
I've got plenty of places to go.
Don't you have anywhere to go?
I'm taking the train...
Jersey? You know what the traffic's gonna be like?
I have to go to my parents' house out in Jersey. Would you like to come?
So we'll get egg nog.
It's Christmas Eve, Jack.
I'd like that, too.
I want to see you again.
Thanks. You're not bad yourself...
You are an amazing lover. You should be giving motivational seminars.
Last night was great...
Of course I did.
Did you really mean what you said about Tuscany?
Congratulations. The La Guardia flights canceled but I got you out of Kennedy on United at nine. Am I good or what?
I found it!
Ill go for a cup of coffee!
Maybe its by the wardrobe boxes...
You didnt seem to mind offering to help me on Christmas day when you were unwrapping that Prada bag I gave you.
Hey, kind of giving up Christmas day for my ex-boss here.
Hey, kind of under a little pressure here.
Do you want me to look for the box or call the airline?
Tell me. When you grew up in Brooklyn, how many astronauts did you know? You went your own way then. You didn't listen to people. So why start now...?
I wouldn't know anything about that.
You don't know what it's like out there. Walking around like some kind of circus freak. People staring, whispering --
This ain't permanent. My friend Reed's working on a cure...I think.
"Sensual blind chick seeks three-ton, rock-hard he-man for deep spiritual relationship."
You know, you could'a run an ad in the personals.
I like the sound of that.
We're going to have to work on your touch.
My step-dad's. I'm strictly into stone. I was wondering when you'd walk by.
Those yours too?
No, I mean...I'm a little...dusty...
Relax, it's casual.
I'm not really dressed for a party.
I'm blind, not deaf. Wanna come in?
How'd you know it was me?
Trust me, this ain't one of those times.
Such a sad face... You know, sometimes being different isn't a bad thing.
You wouldn't say that, if you could see me.
I don't think She's real big on hate.
Forget it, egghead. I'm good as is.
Ben, I've been crunching the numbers on the machine. I think if we can rework the power settings...
Got it, teach.
Time for <u>your</u> lesson, Vic. Chem 101: what happens when you <u>supercool</u> hot metal...? Ben...
Ben, I don't know if this thing'll change us back or make us worse. I need you to be patient for a little while longe--
Glad "nothing" could take you away from your work.
Yeah. I can tell. Victor was right.
We're working as hard as we can --
Oh, you remember my name do you? You happen to remember what you <u>swore</u> to do with every breath in your body?
This isn't permanent, Johnny. We need to be careful until we're normal again.
It's about to be a broken face.
O-kay. We'll skip that question.
Not unless you want that clipboard stretched up your --
Ben, I'm afraid I've got to ask --
Yeah. You don't wanna know the details.
Okay. I've uh, got some questions, from Sue. That she thought might be better coming from me... Can you, you know, go to the bathroom...like normal...
If we're going to identify the source of the mutation, we need to isolate your recombinant DNA so we can activate positional genomes.
You got a chisel round here?
Yeah, nine years straight.
We had a tough year.
Am <u>I</u> okay?! You wanna explain that?!
Ben. Are you okay?
What the --!
I think I need to lie down. Bad shrimp.
Are you alright?
Well maybe <u>you</u> should date him.
He's smart, powerful, successful --
I'm sorry, did that cosmic-bath loosen your screws?
What? Come on. She's got a good thing with Victor --
Reed, I'm not talking about Debbie.
Yeah, you and Debbie and perfect --
You go through something like this, makes you appreciate having the right woman in your life.
I should have done more, run more tests --
Reed. Even <u>you</u> can't compute every little thing.
I don't know. I just keep going over and over the numbers.
Three days. I was worried about you. How are you feeling?
How long was I out?
Ben. This is serious. <u>Turn around</u>.
I ain't done arranging your flowers, egghead.
The shields on the station should protect us.
Victor's better at these things.
This is your dream, Reed. You should be the one up there.
He's made a few changes.
Isn't that <u>your</u> speech?
This makes five.
I had it at four.
When have I asked you to do something you absolutely said you could not do?
I'm sure he's matured since then.
They crashed it into a wall. A flight <i>simulator</i>.
Youthful high spirits.
No. I cannot take orders from that underwear model. That wingnut washed out of NASA for sneaking two Victoria Secret wannabes into a flight simulator.
External SRBs, orbital system engines. Its just like the shuttles you flew in --
Can't do it. I cannot do it.
I know, I know. I'm just worried about what <u>he</u> wants... Speaking of which...
We got what we wanted. That's <u>enough</u>.
Maybe you should think about <u>yourself</u> for once. You always let this guy push you round --
Ben, think about all the people we can help if this works --
He <u>knew</u> about NASA. What if he made the call to shut us down --
Ben, the money's not important. We could <u>save lives</u>.
What about his first born?
Ben. This is business. Just work.
I can't take this.
You'd never know it.
He's financed some of the biggest breakthroughs of this century.
This wasn't our first stop, in case you forgot NASA. And Victor's not that bad. He's just a little... Larger than life.
Good thing it ain't workin... Reed, what are we doing here? This guy's fast-food, strip-mall science --
Hey, I'm Mr. Sensitivity now. Clear the way, wide load coming through.
No more cracks about how I look.
Really? With a name like Von <u>Doom</u>? Never saw <u>that</u> one coming.
The machine works. And Vic's gone Mister Hyde on us --
Go back to the drawing board.
Hey! That's a <u>prototype</u>!
Give me the god damn mirror!
They said that's not such a good idea, the shock alone could --
Give me a mirror...
I swear to you they've done everything humanly possible. The best plastic surgeons in the world, Ben. You had the best --
What's wrong with me?
They're fine. Everybody <i>else</i>...is fine.
Reed? ... Sue?
Back on Earth. Victor's medical facility... We're in quarantine.
Where...where am I?
Don't you wander off, boy.
Put your tiny little mind at ease.
Let's see: you got Victor, stud of the year, more coin than God? Or Reed, the world's dumbest smart guy worth less than a postage stamp. Hmmm, it's a toss-up.
Hey, two hearts got busted last time. Maybe she's not over it either.
Yeah, well, his eyes say different.
'Course not. Strictly business.
Please tell me your dawg's not trying to rekindle things with my sister.
Keep talking, there won't <u>be</u> a next time.
If you behave, maybe next time daddy'll let you drive.
Actually, the engines are SMEs. Hydrogenbase, carbon propellant. Couple generations past your last ride. I'm not as dumb as you look.
What the hell you smiling at? Just keep your mouth shut, and your mind on those SMBs --
I already got it. Everything I want.
What did you wish for, honey?
Deb, it's me. It's still me.
Oh my G-g-g. What did you...do to Ben?
Baby, you're scaring me.
Don't come any closer for a sec. This is gonna be kind of a shock... You remember when we said "together forever no matter what"?
Out front? You home, baby? I got a surprise for you.
Deb... It's me. I need you to step out front.
I don't care about rocks, I care about <u>you</u>. You bring him back in one piece, or you can forget being Best Man.
Soon as I'm back, I'm gonna trade that in for a bigger rock.
Just get back soon, or I start looking for a new groom.
I'll be watching over you.
And you can? Power it up?
He couldn't generate enough power for the machine to reach critical mass. Yet another mistake for "Mr. Fantastic."
He <u>also</u> said we'd avoid that storm in space. And we know how that turned out.
Reed said it'd be weeks till --
To help you. I've run every test known to man. And they all yield the same result: <u>the machine is ready</u>.
What do you want, Vic?
Where do you <u>think</u>? With <u>Sue</u>.
What is this? Where's Reed?
Ben, come in.
Come on. Let me buy you something to eat. Looks like you could use the company.
About me? How sweet.
I'm worried about you.
What are <u>you</u> doing here?
Victor must've taken him.
<u>Where is Reed</u>?
No, it's not. I thought I was done waiting for Reed... We're all in this together now, Ben.
It's easy for you to be patient.
Just give Reed a little more time. You know how he works -- analyzing every little step before he takes one --
It's not him. It's <u>them</u>. I can't live like this.
He didn't mean it. You know Johnny. He's always been a hothead --
<u>What</u> did he do to the uniform?!
Oh, he did.
I wouldn't be caught dead in that.
The suit will stretch. You should try it --
You look like an eighties rock band.
Well why didn't you say so? You want me to lift some weights or something?
We need to give you a physical, so we know what got zapped.
Wouldn't want to keep Vic waiting.
I can only stay for one drink, Ben. I've got to meet with Victor.
Is it safe?
We can monitor the cloud's approach and observe the tests from here.
I can handle the ship. I can even handle Mr. Blonde Ambition. But I don't know if I should be flying or playing Vegas in these suits. Who the hell came up with them?
I'll schedule the launch. Call me in the morning to talk about resources and crew.
Way to not overthink it. So when do we leave?
That's terrible news...
But...this disease...is progressive... degenerative...
The Center for Disease Control. If this thing is contagious --
I wish I could tell you. I can't pretend to know what we're dealing with here. I'll notify the CDC and --
What do you mean "complete"?
At this rate, the infection should be complete in two, maybe three weeks --
Like the shields Reed said would protect us. How long?
I don't really know. A compound organic-metallic alloy. Stronger than titanium or carbon steel. Harder than diamonds --
And they're changing into...
Your tissue, your organs, your entire biophysical structure is changing. Every system is still functioning, somehow --
But all these people...
A higher calling like getting girls and making money?
Act. Here we go again. Reed, what if we got these gifts for a <u>reason</u>? What if we have some, you know...like, calling?
You need to control yourself and <u>think</u> before you --
Right, whatever, have fun.
That's what I'm trying to calculate. And it's not rubber. It's muscle, tendon. I seem to have the ability to manipulate the malleability of my molecular structure and redistribute my density to --
They're not costumes.
He's right. These costumes are... missing something. I can't put my finger on it --
Oh, well that's easy: I'm hot. You're...well, you're a little limp. Sue's easy to see through. And Ben's always been a hardass. Why aren't you writing this down?
What? No. I'm trying to figure out why we each ended up with different symptoms.
What are you trying to say? Just because I dress well and like to dance --
Is there something about flames? About flaming, that you --
Gotcha. Okay. Supernova bad.
Not only could you kill yourself, but you could set fire to Earth's atmosphere and destroy all human life as we know it.
I can go hotter!
Back it down, Johnny!
...and figure out how to reverse them. Let me show you to your rooms.
This place is deluxe. You got cable?
We should stay here until we can define the extent of our changes...
Oh, it is.
Twenty? From outside the place looks a lot taller.
What he's trying to say is: every team needs a mascot...
Ben Grimm is a genuine American hero who's been through a terrible orde--
You've been working out.
This is wrong in so many ways.
Ben, are you there?
Oh, you dawg you. Better not be my nurse!
Cool. What'd it do to you guys?
The cloud has fundamentally altered our DNA.
Now what is up with <i>that</i>?
He's not responsive --
What about you?
Victor's right. Johnny, get to the command center. Close the shields.
No: You're <u>ON FIRE</u>!
Not this again --
You're on fire!
Last one down springs for room service.
I though we went over this.
Stay right. Left is trouble.
Meet me at 4:01, top of the run. That'll give you a minute to freshen up.
My shift ends at four, but I couldn't --
I've never felt better in my life. When do you get off work?
I mean, you feel a little feverish.
So are you!
I don't know if "we've" noticed, but the sickest runs this side of the Alps are <i>right outside that window</i> --
And where do we think we're going?
But Johnny...you <u>can't fly</u>.
Sis. Let <u>me</u> take care of <u>you</u> for once.
What are you doing --
No, <u>I'm</u> sorry, for pushing you out.
I'm sorry, sis, for leaving you guys --
As soon as you stop <u>acting</u> like one. Come on, you're <u>smarter</u> than this. You think those people out there <u>care</u> about you? You're just a <u>fad</u> to them.
Look around, sis! <u>She's not here</u>. So you can stop talking to me like I'm your little boy --
Johnny, slow down. <u>Think</u>. You know mom didn't raise us to --
At least it beats living in a lab like somebody's science project.
Is that what you call it? "<i>Real</i>"?
Yeah, for the last time, I hope. I'm done with this freak show. I'm moving back to the real world.
Johnny? Did you see Ben?
Blockhead started it!
You two need a time-out.
You gave us <u>names</u>? What are you, the "face" of the Fantastic Four now?
You're gonna pay for that, Pebbles. What?!
Dude. That's my sister.
Uh, we call my sister the invisible girl...the Invisible Girl.
That's the temperature of the <u>sun</u>.
You were at 4000 Kelvin. Any hotter, you're approaching supernova --
You're really cramping my style here.
Is that a trick question? C'mon, I can't be the only one who thinks this is cool.
Grow up, Johnny. You want to run around <u>on fire</u> for the rest of your life?
Wait. You mean there's chance we could be full-on-24-7-fantastic?
I think that thing is Ben.
What is that <i>thing</i>?
Flame on, flame off. Flame on, flame off --
<u>Please</u> tell me you go silent too.
Apparently I can disappear.
Keep the hot side hot, and the cool side cool!
The synthetics act as a second skin, adapting to your individual needs to --
Top left, like you asked. Today Wall Street. Tomorrow, who knows...maybe Washington.
Yes sir. You've got the Mayor at eight, then a nine-thirty interview with the Journal --
Make sure you find Ben, bring him back here. And keep it quiet. I don't need this to hit the press.
<u>That's</u> why. Because I could have any <u>other</u> woman... You know, when they asked Caesar "why England," he said, "because it's not <u>mine</u>."
Sir, I've always wondered... Why <u>Sue</u>? You could have any woman in the world but --
Later. First, I've got some unfinished business. A deal that needs closing...
You know, maybe you should get some rest --
And that's a <u>good</u> thing?
Actually, uh, people seem to think the scar "humanizes" you.
Get me on the AM shows, Larry King, cover of the Journal... I've <u>got to</u> do something about this scar. Make sure they only shoot my right side.
Sir, I'm sure he wouldn't put himself --
Reed's disaster. You know, I half- think he did this to me on purpose.
Stable. We're looking at low twenties. It's a good number, considering the fallout from --
How's the IPO?
Recording, sir. We see you perfectly.
Leonard, how's the feed?
History, Leonard. <u>History</u>. Everything else is conversation... How's the other matter?
Then what is it?
It's not just the money. I could make money in my sleep.
Our numbers are through the roof. The IPO's tracking at fifty, sixty a share. The bank's five times oversubscribed --
They're ready for you, sir.
Reed's <u>always</u> right. Good thing he doesn't always know what he's got...
And if he's not...?
If Reed's right, then this little trip will double our stock offering.
Which is precisely the <u>point</u>. Analysis is over. It's time for <u>action</u>. My men could have mass- produced this by now.
But I'm not done with the machine --
What I <u>should</u> have done a long time ago. Applications and patents, Reed. This all belongs to me.
What are you doing here?
I don't want to <u>understand</u> it. This isn't one of your science projects. I just want to <u>fix</u> it. <u>Fast</u>!
Victor, if we could understand what happened to us --
<u>Abort</u>? Reed, I put my company, my name, billions of dollars on the line, and I will <u>not</u> let you make me look like a fool --
<u>I</u> ruined? With all due respect, I told you to abort --
Didn't go as <u>planned</u>? It was a <u>catastrophe</u>. You ruined the lives of four people --
Not much. We need to run tests to see the extent of the damage.
I'm starting to wonder the same thing... How much do you know about what happened to you?
He's had some kind of...reaction to exposure from the cloud. And he's not the only one.
<u>Ben</u> did this?
Ben did this.
Just a little banged up. A couple scrapes. Why?
It's too late for him, and soon it'll be too late for all of us.
Not until Ben is back inside!
Reed, we're running out of time.
Come on, Ben, come on...
So reel him in. But we came here to do a <u>job</u>. So let's do it. <u>Quickly</u>.
Ben's still out there --
Get a grip. Reed. We didn't come all this way to lose our nerve at the first little glitch. Just close the shields...
We've got <u>minutes</u> until it hits, not hours...Victor, that storm's <u>deadly</u> -- the radiation's lethal. We need to abort.
Got it. So take a walk, Ben...I'm going to borrow Susan for a second.
Funny how things turn out, isn't it?
The number's <u>seventy-five</u>. And it's applications <u>and</u> patents.
You back this mission, and I'll sign over a fair percentage of any applications or --
Not at all.
This isn't going to be a problem, is it?
You remember in school we talked about working together. That's what I was about to explain...
But dreams don't pay the bills, do they? Same old Reed, the hopeless optimist. Still reaching for the stars, with the world on your back.
A <u>gasket</u>? Reed, we're at a party.
I found a broken gasket, from space --
I'm sure I can come up with something.
Sue, I need some of that anger, rage, frustration --
You <u>need</u> a doctor.
The power...I need...more power...to control...the storm --
Reed, stop, you need to rest your --
I can...make it work.
That would have kinda defeated the purpose. And Reed... I'm saying it now.
Why didn't you say something?
When I walked out, I waited <u>ten</u> <u>minutes</u> outside your door. Ten. Waiting for you to come find me.
I did. I did, Reed...but I wanted <u>you</u> to be that man.
You always talked about how you liked the kind of man who could approach you...speak his mind. One who wasn't afraid to tell you what he wanted.
I gave him twenty.
You know, I bribed the projectionist ten bucks to keep it open late?
Of course I was. I'd read all your papers on bioethics. Some of them two times just so I'd have something to say to you.
Remember our first date here...? God, I was so nervous.
Reed. Shh. Just be quiet. And look up.
I could get Ben to tap into the Baxter's main power to generate enough voltage --
<u>I'm</u> not the only one in there. I got you, Vic, Ben, Johnny, all rattling around in there.
Every variable but <u>yourself</u>. You don't eat, sleep. You can't live in your head like --
Which is why I'm working <u>twenty</u> hours a day, checking every variable --
Better than your <u>life</u>. Victor's not the one who has to get into that thing. <u>We</u> are.
He was going to take away all my data, equipment --
Don't let Victor push you into making a mistake --
No way to know. Without more tests, experiments.
Reed. How close are we to a cure?
With the right energy, we can stabilize the storm. Maybe tie into the city grid...
And you sure you can control this thing? Last time didn't work out so well.
Of course. Of course.
But <u>we're</u> the focus, right Reed? <u>Reed</u>...?
Curing countless diseases, not just ours.
And reverse the mutations --
If we can build a machine to re-create the storm, we can reverse the polarity --
The plants, from space. Their particles are still charged. With the right amount of energy, those ions could <u>create</u> the elemental profile of the cosmic storm.
What are you doing?
No. There weren't. There was <u>you</u>. And <u>me</u>. No variables, no math. It was actually the simplest thing in the world. But your head got in the way... like it always does.
There were a lot of variables to consider --
I just wanted to share an apartment. What was so complicated about that?
I think it was a little more complicated than --
Reed. I was ready for the next step, you weren't, ergo, I walked.
No, I distinctly remember: <u>you</u> walked out <u>my</u> door. Ergo...
Are you kidding?
I mean, <u>you</u> broke up with <u>me</u>, right?
What in the world would give me that idea?
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to do that... You must think that was some kind of latent hostility or --
I'm sure I can come up with something.
Okay. Is there any way to duplicate that feeling? Some memory or...
Anger. Rage. Frustration.
I'm saying, if you had a little more self control, you could locate the trigger. Can you remember the exact emotions when --
You should be able to bend light around other objects, even people, if you could control your emotional state better --
What about you? You haven't eaten in days. How come you're never on this side of the microscope?
It's not "invisibility" per se. You're bending the light around you with some kind of malleable force field. That's what you projected on the Bridge.
If it happened to him, then it could...
That's what we're here to find out.
How come Ben can't turn it on and off like us?
Sue. Your clothes. Lose them.
We need to get past them.
Let's not jump to conclusions, we need a <i>massive amount of evidence</i> before making that leap.
It has to be the cloud. It's fundamentally altered our DNA.
Sue...<i>look at your hands</i>.
What? What do you mean you --
Uh, Sue...? I <u>can't</u>.
You are such a dork, Reed... You never got it and never will unless it's explained to you in quantum physics.
I can tell you guys are enjoying what was the best part of our relationship --
You're <u>happy</u> for me and Victor.
You always had a way with words. I should be getting back.
That's good. That's uh...good.
Great minds think alike.
Material made from self-regulating unstable molecules. I've been working on a formula for this.
Well, he's welcome to ride shotgun, but we already have a pilot on our payroll. You remember my brother Johnny...
As far as crew, I was hoping Ben could pilot the mission --
It's been changed.
I, uh, think I remember the number.
Right. That's exactly what I meant.
Well, uh, based on our history...you can handle the biogenetics, and I'll focus on the molecular physics. Or, uhm, maybe I should take the biotech, you work the microscopes, since you have some background in electropho--
I was talking about us. Working together.
Those solar winds are flaring, but I factored them into my coordinates and --
You're, you've, I mean, how have you bee--
Victor, we <u>can't do anything</u> until the research is ready.
Oh, I think you already have.
Please don't make this personal --
Then why is Reed dragging his feet? Maybe he <u>likes</u> having his prize specimen under glass... It's ironic, isn't it? You're finally the perfect woman for him...because you're his <u>science project</u>.
If these molecules aren't stable, they could make us <u>worse</u>, maybe even kill us.
Same old Reed. All analysis, no action. Wasn't that the problem with you two?
He's working round the clock. But the data needs to be tested, analyzed before --
Susan. What are you doing?
Victor, wait, slow down a second. I want you to know I appreciate everything you've done for me, but I just don't --
It is. There's something we need to talk about. Something I need to ask you...
You said it was urgent.
Please, no apologies. I've arranged for your things to be moved to one of my condos. You'll have round-the clock care.
I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to --
I told you, I'm fine. It's <u>you</u> I'm worried about.
Victor, your scar --
Just <u>find</u> him.
Victor, I'm sorry I --
Victor, are you feeling alright?
What's going on?
You can't leave them out there.
Raising the shields.
What are you doing?
Sue, I've lived my life unafraid of taking big steps. And this is the biggest step yet. If it helps, think of this as a <u>promotion</u>. A merger of sorts... Four little words that can change our lives...
Uh, Victor, I hope I haven't done something to make you think...
Right, of course, the company... But you see, I've come to realize all the accomplishments in the world mean nothing without someone to share them with --
It's been a good two years, Victor... The company's accomplished so much.
Well, when you're looking at your future, it never hurts to find closure about the past.
I understand the <i>business</i> reasons.
Surprised I agreed to Reed's proposal?
I think you both know my Director of Genetic Research, Susan Storm.
It's just business.
For your sake I hope you're right. I'm sorry if that sounds a little skeptical.
Reed's gonna fix me up --
I'm just saying, I know what it's like to lose something you love. To see it slip away, and know it's never coming back.
If you're trying to cheer me up you're doing a helluva job --
I know it can't be easy. Life hasn't changed that much for Reed, Sue and Johnny. At least they can go out in public. But for you? People staring. Whispering behind your back...
Well, how about hypnosis? That can't hurt him!
I'd hold that off awhile.
Now how soon can we try Sodium Pentathol?
Along the Optic Nerve to the Eye.
If I were in their place and I'd run out of time, I'd abandon the ship before I grew to dangerous size... and use the few extra minutes to get out the quickest way possible, on my own...
What're you getting at?
That blip we're picking up might only be the radio-active particle. The Proteus may already be destroyed...
What is it?
It means killing Benes... And for all we know, they may have completed the operation! Damn it to hell!
Time's up... We'll have to take them out immediately.
I can't help it. I'm just weak, I guess.
I told you to cut down on the sugar.
Let's find what the devil's holding them up! Contact the Proteus!
It'll be close -- but there's still a margin of safety.
Another delay... With only forty-two minutes left.
They'll make up some time, once they get through that and reach the Pleural Cavity. Respiration Post...
They're in the Pulmonary Artery.
Message to Proteus.
<Cardiac Red Alert> we're stopping the Heart.
Nothing -- compared to starting it up again.
What are the problems in stopping the Heart?
That would give us only three seconds to revive him...
At topspeed...and adjusting distance for Degree of Miniaturization -- The sub should get through the Heart in fifty-seven seconds.
In his comatose state...and everything slowed down...no more than sixty seconds.
I know that. But what's the maximum?
The less time, the better.
Doctor...without killing him -- how long could we stop his heart?
Not until the very last second. We must think of something... Something to save the situation.
But it's hopeless! They can't go back and they can't go on. I tell you there's nothing else we can do but remove them!
We still have fifty-one minutes. Leave them in.
But we have no choice! We've got, to take them out!
Normally not. Unless it's an Arterio-Venous Fistula --
That can't be -- there's no direct connection between the two --
They've crossed over into the Jugular Vein!
Okay to proceed.
Where do we stand?
We understand your concern, but we've made our decision, Doctor. Any questions? Anybody?
Benes' natural defenses. White Corpuscles -- Antibodies. Once you begin to grow -- and become a menace to the body -- you'll trigger them off... MICHAELS With all the unknown factors in the body, I still say risking five lives for one is something we should reconsider --
Here's the overall Target Area...
Grant's uniquely qualified for this mission. He's a Communications Expert and was a Frogman during the War. Besides, he brought Benes into this country, and the fewer people who know about him, the better. At any rate, you'll find Grant invaluable, should anything go wrong once you're under way. Okay, Don.
Why don't you go on. We'll meet you at the Clearance Desk in a few minutes.
Yes, we'd like to get moving.
He's blanked out on that one particular point.
Can't remember?... What do you mean?
Oh yes, great. The only problem is, he can't remember what he came to tell us.
Where can I get a cab back to town?
Just one, General...
Attack? Who -- or should I say what from?
There'll be a team of Surgeons standing by. We're prepared to remove you immediately, should anything go wrong. In any event, you must be out within sixty minutes. After that, you'll be in danger of attack.
Oh yes, I've heard of you, Doctor.
This is Dr. Duval, our Head Surgeon.
Not even for a minute! General Carter, sir, I'd like you to reconsider your choice. I'm just not the right man for a mission of this kind.
It's only for an hour --
But I don't want to be Miniaturized -- !
Grant, our Miniaturizer can shrink anything.
Wait a minute! They can't shrink <me>!
As part of the Crew.
You mean <I'm> going along?
Well, the only way to reach that clot is from inside the Brain. So we've decided to put a Surgical Team and a Crew into a submarine -- reduce it way down in size, and inject it into an Artery --
Trip? Where to?
And take a little trip with them...
They're bound to try again. No wonder they want me to stand by during the operation.
That's right. He wanted us to have the secret, and not them. Which is why they tried to kill him.
I assume Benes knows how to control it.
They have... But we've both got the same problem -- lack or control. We can only keep things Miniaturized for exactly sixty minutes. Arter that, everything starts growing back to its original size.
If the Other Side ever gets hold of a thing like that...
We can shrink an Army -- with all its equipment -- and put it in a bottle cap. That's why we call it <Combined Miniature Deterrent Forces>.
General, I've heard some wild ones. But this takes it.
Say that again?
<Combined Miniature Deterrent Forces>.
I don't mean to be inquisitive. But this <CMDF> -- for all I know it could stand for <Consolidated Mobilization of Female Delinquents>?
No question of her loyalty.
His technician okay? In addition to the Looks Department?
Come along, they'll be operating shortly. See you later, Mike.
I wouldn't know if he's trying to save him or kill him.
We have no choice. Duval's the most skillful brain surgeon in the country, and he's right here, at hand.
But why take the chance, when there must be other doctors?
Tell him where he fits in, will you? I've got a few things to check out.
Wish I knew why.
What can I do? Except maybe pass out?
Cora Peterson, his Technical Assistant. You'll join Duval and the others --
Sorry, but I'm rusty on surgeons. Who's the girl?
Duval. Dr. Peter Duval. Top brain man in the country. Ever hear of him?
Here's the Surgeon.
I can't even put a Band-Aid on my finger.
-- and why we need you.
Before he could breathe a word. He's the only scientist who knows the answer to what we're after. That's why we have to operate --
Before or after what he wanted to tell you?
How bad off is he?
The Other Side got to him.
Benes... What the devil happened?
The Pentagon, wasn't it, General? Only you weren't in that uniform...
Hello, Grant. Good to see you again.
And no matter what happens, you're to take orders <only> from Dr. Michaels, understand?
I'll be standing by. <I'll> know.
That's no reason to suspect him of disloyalty.
Difficult? He's impossible!
I don't agree. Just because he's often difficult --
[LINE OF DIALOGUE CUT OFF]
Glad to have you with us, Mr. Grant.
Meet Grant. This is Dr. Michaels, Chief of the Medical Section.
Yes, there's no time to spare. And those fibers can be quite tenacious.
Wouldn't it be quicker if we all helped?
No danger of attack, as long as you don't trigger them off by any injury to the System.
You're going out there? With those Antibodies --
With no laser --
That's beside the point now. I don't see the sense of going on.
We'll know -- in the next breath...
But we just can't leave him in there! What'll happen to him?
It must have been jarred loose during the whirlpool.
I can't imagine how it possibly could have come loose. I distinctly recall fastening it with all four bolts --
Yes...slowed down agreat deal.
He certainly is. He should be up and about in no time.
He's making a fine recovery.
I don't know yet, Doctor. And I won't know until I test it.
Cora, is something wrong with the laser?
No danger of an embolism. At our reduced scale, they're much too minute to prove fatal to Benes.
Air bubbles!... Doctor --
Dr. Michaels is right. We have no choice.
Doctor...you can't mean that! Not when we've come this far. And if we give up, there'll be no way of saving Mr. Benes --
But big enough for us...
Yes, a fistula too small to show up on the X-rays.
They're much smaller than bacteria...
Never saw <that>. Not even under an electron-mrcroscope.
Thank you for volunteering.
I just wanted to thank you for taking me along.
What is it? Anything wrong?
I -- I want to say...
Look! They follow the direction of her glance, are startled to see:
We better get back to the sub. Every second counts now.
Well, if you happen to be very fond of him -- even in love with him -- it would certainly affect your point of view.
What do you mean?
Depends on which end of the telescope you look through.
Oh, no. Plenty of cause. He won't follow the herd, or change his convictions -- even when they're not popular. And he believes in an absolutely free interchange of information between scientists of different countries -- and these days, there's nothing more suspicious than that.
Under a cloud without cause, I take it.
You're not the first, but he's much too innocent, much too involved with his work, to realize what's going on around him.
As obvious as that? Our Security people will jump for joy. I suppose Duval's onto me, too?
That's why you're really here. I knew it from the start.
What gives you that idea?
Keeping an eye on Dr. Duval...
A great deal more than that, I believe...
That's what they pay me for.
Thank you for saving my life.
I feel much better now...
No need to get up --
I can't till the hatch is flooded!
Open it! Open it before they get here!
I've got a source. All I have to do is tap it.
Oh yes, I'm sure Dr. Duval could. If we had the parts.
A surgeon might...
No, it requires such absolute precision --
If you had a transistor about this size and power output, and a thin enough wire -- -- could you piece it together?
Not anything built into the chassis. If it hadn't come loose --
You must carry spare parts --
You can't --it's too dangerous --
I'll try to hold it from the other side of the wall, while you push from out here. Maybe that'll do it.
Not now. We need air, not greetings!
Shouldn't you answer that?
I have no idea.
Then how come it worked loose?
But I did. I'm positive!
Looks like you didn't batten it down too well.
Doctor -- is it possible? That we're seeing it happen before our eyes?
Look at that...they're changing color...
And if it should take more time to get through --
-- at which point the Heart will be stopped by electric shock.
I always thought it was nothing but red.
I never...never imagined it could be anything...like this.
Not working for someone like Dr. Duval --
A long time, with one man.
I've been with him since I got out of school. He brought me into the CMDF, over five years ago.
I understand you've been Dr. Duval's Assistant for quite some time... He must've snatched you out of the cradle.
Not in the hands of a great surgeon like Dr. Duval. The beam of this laser can be regulated to one millionth of a millimeter.
That could be quite a lethal weapon... It could kill, not cure.
Now I know...
That'll teach you where to keep your hand.
You may learn to like it.
That's the trouble. I am. Being shrunk...
I think it's the most exciting -- We're going to see things no one ever saw before. The actual physical process of Life itself -- not something under a microscope... Just think of it --
Well, it's not exactly a pleasure cruise.
You sound as if you're not looking forward to it.
I'll take some Laughing Gas, ma'am.
We're pushing oxygen today.
Bet you're pretty handy around the house... Can you cook?
I'm going to do what I can to save Benes.
Dr. Duval, you are not going through with this! I absolutely forbid it! I'm responsible for the lives of everyone here! I will not allow you or anyone else to leave this ship!
We have no alternative. With only six minutes left, we'll just barely make it.
Removal Point? What're you talking about!
The Breath of God...
You left something out.
--and certain chemicals involving proteins --
Take a close look at your Soul, and your Infinity, and your God out there --
The Soul? The finite mind cannot comprehend Infinity. And the Soul which comes from God is Infinite.
I know only too well what's in the balance, Doctor. And it's not my ego, damned or otherwise.
As usual, you want everything your way. Except this time there's more than your damned ego at stake.
I'll do nothing of the sort! The operation is <my> responsibility! I won't do it, and that's final!
Dr. Duvall I insist you test the laser.
If it won't work, it's beyond my power to fix it. But if it does, there's no telling how long it will hold up. It's a jury rig, at best, and we'll need every second of use we can get out of it. That's why I don't want to put any extra strain on the connections by running unnecessary tests.
All I'm asking is you test it beforehand!
I've done all I could with the laser.
Better Judgment?! To wait until the actual operation -- when it may be too late?
It's against my better Judgment...
If we can go in past the Oculomotor Nerve...
That puts us right here... Which means we can head straight for the Sub Arachnoid Cavity.
Nothing -- against all that force.
What can we do?
You can't believe all that's accidental? That there isn't a Creative Intelligence at work --
Nothing miraculous about it. Just an interchange of gases. The end product of five hundred million years of Evolution.
Captain -- head in the d1rection of the flow and drift with it.
We can't take a second more.
Not in a sealed vessel like an Artery. Captain -- something must be wrong with your controls!
But that isn't possible.
That's not the purpose of this mission. Captain -- keep a straight course -- until you're in the clear.
I don't agree. I think we ought to stop and take a sample.
Looks like the molecular structure of proteins.
It's too late now. We must go on.
I can't breathe!... I've got to get out!
Doctor, what's wrong?
It's too late!
What about Dr. Michaels?
You said there was a quick way out!
We could follow the Optic Nerve to the corner of the Eye.
The ship's good as finished. We'll have to get out on our own! Is there a quick way out?
It I can clear this Central Nerve, that <may> be enough...
Doctor, we've just about had it.
If I can relieve the pressure on a few key vessels...
How does it look, Doctor?
"Proclaiming in incandescent glory The myriad Mind of Man..."
"Yet all the suns that light the Corridors of the Universe shine dim, Before the blazing of a Single Thought -- "
Then why not take it?
Yes... We can transfer over to the Inner Ear, and go by way of the Endolymphatic Duct.
Isn't there another route? So we can by-pass all this?
We'll never get there in time, at this rate.
No, there's no other way.
Isn't there another surgical procedure you can try?
Maybe we can... Skipper, is there a snorkel on this sub?
Just a few cells away from a vast air chamber -- one of the countless Alvioli of the Lung -- and we can't get enough to fill a microscopic tank.
Don't tell me they're refueling...
A simple exchange, Mr. Grant. Corpuscles releasing carbon dioxide -- the moment they touch the Wall of the Lung -- in return for oxygen coming through from the other side.
Mind letting me in on what's going on out there?
They all lead to the same place -- the Lungs.
I'd hate to get lost on that Freeway...
Quite a piece of plumbing.
Only to the naked eye. Those corpuscles -- carrying oxygen -- give the stream its color. But the rest of the plasma's very much like sea water. An ocean of life...
Everything can be divided in half, no matter how minute.
You mean Inner Space is endless?
The Medieval Philosophers were right... <Man> is the center of the Universe... We stand in the middle of Infinity, between Outer and Inner Space. And there's no limit to either.
Why not? Because of his gibberish about GOd and the Soul? Camouflage -- that's all it is -- to blind the gullible like you! And to hide his real identity -- a fanatic whose only purpose is to kill Benes! And you made it possible!
I don't believe that.
Nothing has changed as far as <my> authority goes! He is <not> going to operate! Not in the little time we have left! There's no chance of success! It's sheer suicide for all of us!
Sorry, but the situation has changed.
I'm in charge of this mission! You were instructed to take orders from me, not give them!
How long will it take to get from here to the Removal Point?
Once time's up, De-Miniaturization begins. In a matter of seconds the ship will grow big enough to become a danger to the System. Then White Corpuscles will swarm to destroy it, as they would any invader.
Hold it, Skipper. What happens if we overstay?
No, we should reach the base of the Brain shortly. And from there, it's not far to the site of the injury.
Looks like quite a way to go...
Let's hope they realize the danger. Captain, I'll give you a new compass heading.
They're tracking us Topside. Once they see where we're going, I'm sure they'll take every precaution.
Just what it is. Antibodies, destroying Bacteria -- or any other foreign invader that threatens the System.
Looks like somebody declared war.
Reticular fibers. We ought to be clear of them soon.
Skipper, you're picking up seaweed -- or whatever it is.
The Lymphatic System drains off excess fluid from the Tissues. Without it, we'd all swell up like balloons. He reaches the console, begins to take out a new chart.
I always had an idea there was only one System. The Circulatory.
We're entering the Lymphatic System. Those are nuclei of cells, lining a Duct.
It's possible --
Two in a row?
I can't believe it. Whatever happened was an accident.
You still never know what's going on in anyone's mind...
I -- I don't know what to say. I know he's under a cloud, but there's not a more dedicated man in the entire medical profession.
That line was tampered with...
You have no right to blame Duval --
I saw the laser just before we started. It was fastened down securely. You don't suppose what happened was an 'accident?' Any more than my safety line snapping after it was tied off to the sub?
Sabotage? I don't understand...
Let's hope... So far, somebody's tried to sabotage this mission twice.
His Pleura's in fine condition. It should be clear sailing through this area.
Cough? If he can kick up a storm by just <breathing> --
We're safe -- long as it remains that color... We're in the Pleural Sac. It keeps the Lungs from rubbing against the Wall of the Chest up there. When those membranes become inflamed, we wind up with Pleurisy -- and a wracking cough.
Looks like the sea, at dawn.
Send the following message...
Well, sir? Which is it? The wireless, or Benes' life?
They'll still be able to track us by radar, because of the radioactive fuel.
But that'll knock out our communications! We'll be cutting ourselves off from the outside.
Just one little transistor and a circuit wire is all it takes.
Grant -- wait a minute -- you're not going to dismantle the wireless?
Walt for the lull -- between the time he inhales and exhales.
All right now -- push the snorkel through as soon as I get inside.
There's no other way. Tie my safety line to the sub.
Yes -- with all that pressure, and suction within --
Well, we better get on with it.
In a way -- yes. Those are impurities imbedded in the Lung after a lifetime of 'Civilization.' Carbon from smoke and smog -- specks of dust --
If those Corpuscles can take on air, no reason why we can't. All we have to do is hook up the snorkel to that air chamber you were talk1ng about, and when Benes inhales, there should be plenty of pressure to force the oxygen into the tank. How's that sound to you, Skipper?
At this size, I would certainly think so.
Fasten yourselves in. There should be a tremendous surge when the Heart starts up again.
There it is!
It lays down quite a barrage in a lifetime. Forty million beats.
Sounds like heavy artillery...
Request removal, Mr. Grant.
If there's any chance --
Tell them to take us out.
I'm afraid there's only one thing we can do. Call off the mission.
That's just dandy. We can't go forward -- and we can't go back.
Yes... We can go forward on this course, but it means going directly through the Heart.
If we can't go back, is there an alternate route?
A forced joining of an Artery and Vein. Must've happened when Benes was hurt.
Well, it seems to me if you reduce a ship to microscopic size -- and the stream remains constant -- we'd take quite a beating.
About forty miles an hour.
How are you, Miss Peterson?
Miss Peterson, his Technical Assistant.
Surgical assassination?! But that means you suspect --
They know they failed to kill Benes. Security thinks they'll try again, first chance they get. We're afraid of medical sabotage -- or surgical assassination.
At an operation?
We need you for Security purposes, Mr. Grant.
And she said it was indelible...
What'd you do that for?
I can't tell you that either... Excuse me, Mr. Grant, but you've got a smudge on your cheek.
Where we going?
I can't tell you.
I thought I was on my vacation... What's it all about?
Sorry we had to get you up at this hour, Mr. Grant.
Nothing wrong with us! Not a thing! We're fine -- just fine!
Oh -- sure, sure! Never better!
We feel great, don't we? Just <great>?!
Uh -- what?
Who, me? Oh, no! Don't bother about me! We're not hurt! Isn't that right, Skipper?
We can get out through the Lab Section.
Come on -- it's no use!
Berserk nothing. He's the one who's been sabotaging the mission... Get this on. Hurry!
Dr. Michaels... He went berserk...
Remember -- we can't take more than five minutes to get out.
I've come up against fanatics before, and Duval just doesn't fit the pattern. I'm going out there, Skipper. Maybe I can be of some help...
Enough to breathe, but that's all.
Any reserve air?
Positions, please. And strap yourselves in.
'Prepare for Miniaturization'...
Remind me to ask you about the love life of an octupus.
Designed for Piscatorial Research -- the Spawning Habits of Deep Sea Fish.
All in all, quite a canoe...
It should work -- theoretically. If it doesn't, the mission's off. The craft's nuclear-powered. Except for your wireless.
That's cutting it mighty close -- for a perfect fit.
They can't reduce nuclear fuel. But once the Reactor's Miniaturized -- along with the submarine -- a microscopic particle should emit enough energy to activate it.
If it's no military secret, how can a sub run on a microscopic particle?
Nothing you could see with the naked eye. But there's a microscopic radio-active particle inside.
That makes two of us.
Out of your element, aren't you, Captain?
I could use a lawnmower...
How's it look?
What I was afraid would happen. The stuff we passed through -- that looked like seaweed --
What's wrong, Skipper?
Look at those Walls up ahead!
Thirty-two minutes left... But chances are we won't have to wait that long for try-number three.
Could I run a tube through that Wall, without harming Benes?
Yes, there is.
We're losing pressure in the Flotation Tanks. Check the Manual, right over there.
What is it, Skipper?
Yes, by all means. We must try it.
It's a dangerous procedure. If I miss the timing, we could explode the tanks... But I'm willing to try it.
Not to the valve. But we've lost too much air to make it the rest of the way.
Was there any damage?
Well, that takes care of the valve. It was probably caused by that electric shock.
I'll guide you, once we're in the Heart.
I'll never find my way through that.
Looks simple to operate.
On the Repeater.
Captain, how will you be able to follow my charts -- --from up there?
The only danger of turbulence is in the Heart -- and we're not going through it. Once in the Carotid Artery, we'll remain in the Arterial System... until we reach the point of damage -- -- where Dr. Duval will attempt to dissolve the clot with a laser beam. After the operation, we'll return by way of the Venous System -- -- until we reach the base of the neck -- -- where we'll be removed right here -- with a hypodermic.
Even so, because of our size -- I mean lack of it -- we'll still be cruising mighty fast. We'll be smashed to bits if there's any turbulence --
Fluid is seeping through. Better come down and have a look!
What do you mean?
There seems to be something wrong with the Escape Hatch...
It's less than one ten-thousandth of an inch thick. And porous.
The Wall's transparent...
We're entering a Capillary. Remain in the middle.
Doctor -- the channel's getting awful narrow.
I'll do what I can.
Then don't drift down further.
We could never fight that current it's physically impossible.
May I have your ticket, please?
Ophhem ma fuchem gaphe!
Well, see, there's a minimum charge of four dollars. Long-term parking charges by the day.
I just pulled in here. I just fucking pulled in here!
I'm sorry, sir, we do have to charge you the four dollars.
I decided not to - I'm, uh, not taking the trip as it turns out.
You, uh... I'm sorry, sir, but -
Yeah, I just came in. I decided not to park here.
...What do you mean, you decided not to park here?
Unghh... oh, geez...
...Is this a fucking joke?
Is this a fucking joke here?
No Jean, no money!
Drop that fucking money!
Where's my damn daughter? No Jean, no money!
Fuck you, man! Where's Jerry? I gave SIMPLE FUCKING INSTRUCTIONS -
Where's my daughter?
I am through fucking around! Drop that fucking briefcase!
I got your goddamn money, you little punk. Now where's my daughter?
Who the fuck are you? Who the fuck are you?
That's my license and registration. I wanna be in compliance.
What's this, sir?
...So maybe the best thing would be to take care of that, right here in Brainerd.
Can I see your license and registration please?
You're required to display temporary tags, either in the plate area or taped inside the back window.
It certainly is, officer. Still got that smell!
This is a new car, then, sir?
...What're you talking about?
Ya find the work interesting, do ya?
I don't know. Few munce.
... What is he, deaf?... So, uh, how long have you been with the escort service?
Yeah, well, it depends on the artist. You know, Jose Feliciano, ya got no complaints. Waiter!
I don't think so. It's nice.
Have ya been to the Celebrity Room before? With other, uh, clients?
Wuddya do? Carl looks around.
Just in town on business. Just in and out. Ha ha! A little of the old in-and-out!
HOLD ON! NO FUCKIN' WAY! YOU FUCKIN' NOTISH ISH? I GOT FUCKIN' SHOT INNA FAISH! I WENT'N GOTTA FUCKIN' MONEY! I GET SHOT FUCKIN' PICKIN' IT UP! I BEEN UP FOR THIRTY-SHIKSH FUCKIN' HOURZH! I'M TAKIN' THAT FUCKIN' CAR! THAT FUCKERZH MINE!
One of us pays the other for half.
We split that.
...You c'n'ave my truck. I'm takin' a Shiera.
She started shrieking, you know.
Clear him off the road.
You'll take care of it. Boy, you are smooth smooth, you know.
Geez. That's more'n I've heard you say all week.
Shut the fuck up or I'll throw you back in the trunk, you know.
I need ...unguent.
Huh? Grimsurd looks at his thumb.
"No." First thing you've said in the last four hours. That's a, that's a fountain of conversation, man. That's a geyser. I mean, whoa, daddy, stand back, man. Shit, I'm sittin' here driving, man, doin' all the driving, whole fuckin' way from Brainerd, drivin', tryin' to, you know, tryin' to chat, keep our spirits up, fight the boredom of the road, and you can't say one fucking thing just in the way of conversation.
...Would it kill you to say something?
...Look at that. Twin Cities. IDS Building, the big glass one. Tallest skyscraper in the Midwest. After the Sears, uh, Chicago... You never been to Minneapolis?
Yeah, yeah, Jesus - I'm sayin', we'll stop for pancakes, then we'll get laid. Wuddya think?
I'm fuckin' hungry now, you know.
...Come on, man. Okay, here's an idea. We'll stop outside of Brainerd. I know a place there we can get laid. Wuddya think?
What're you, nuts? We had pancakes for breakfast. I gotta go somewhere I can get a shot and a beer - and a steak maybe. Not more fuckin' pancakes. Come on.
We stop at Pancakes Hause.
Where is Pancakes Hause?
Or your fucking wife, Jerry.
Or your fucking wife, you know.
Okay, real good, then.
...Yah, well, you stay away from Scotty now -
You're there in thirty minutes or I find you, Jerry, and I shoot you, and I shoot your fucking wife, and I shoot all your little fucking children, and I shoot 'em all in the back of their little fucking heads. Got it?
Yah, okay, but, uh -
Don't you fucking but me, Jerry. I want you with this money on the Dayton- Radisson parking ramp, top level, thirty minutes, and we'll wrap this up.
Yah, I got the money, but, uh -
I'll see you tomorrow.
...The heck d'ya mean?
IS IT, JERRY? You ask those three pour souls up in Brainerd if a deal's a deal! Go ahead, ask 'em!
Now we had a deal here! A deal's a deal!
Blood has been shed. We've incurred risks, Jerry. I'm coming into town tomorrow. Have the money ready.
Oh, for Chrissakes here -
Look. I'm not gonna debate you, Jerry. The price is now the whole amount. We want the entire eighty thousand.
Well, I'm sorry, but I just - I -
DON'T EVER INTERRUPT ME, JERRY! JUST SHUT THE FUCK UP!
This was s'posed to be a no-rough stuff-type deal -
We need more -
The heck d'ya mean? What a you guys got yourself mixed up in?
That's right. And we need more money.
Three people. In Brainerd.
What the heck d'ya mean?
...Blood has been shed.
Blood has been shed, Jerry.
What the heck're you talkin' about? Let's just finish up this deal here -
Oh, Jean's okay. But there's three people up in Brainerd who aren't so okay, I'll tell ya that.
My wife! What the - how's -
Okay, Jerry. You're tasking us to perform this mission, but you, you won't, uh, you won't - aw, fuck it, let's take a look at that Ciera.
Yah. Personal matters that needn't, uh -
Well, it's all just part of this - they don't know I need it, see. Okay, so there's that. And even if they did, I wouldn't get it. So there's that on top, then. See, these're personal matters.
So why don't you just ask him for the money?
Well, that's, that's, I'm not go inta, inta - see, I just need money. Now, her dad's real wealthy -
What kind of trouble are you in, Jerry?
Okay, it's - see, it's not me payin' the ransom. The thing is, my wife, she's wealthy - her dad, he's real well off. Now, I'm in a bit of trouble -
...You-my point is, you pay the ransom- what eighty thousand bucks? - I mean, you give us half the ransom, forty thousand, you keep half. It's like robbing Peter to play Paul, it doesn't make any -
You want your own wife kidnapped?
Oh, no, it's real sound. It's all worked out.
I'm not gonna sit here and debate. I will say this though: what Shep told us didn't make a whole lot of sense.
I'm not gonna debate you, Jerry.
Yah. But it's not a whole pay-in- advance deal. I give you a brand-new vehicle in advance and -
Yeah, you already said that.
Yah, well, that was a mix-up, then.
Except that you were gonna be here at 7:30.
Well, okay, it's -
Shep didn't tell us much, Jerry.
Yah, but the deal was, the car first, see, then the forty thousand, like as if it was the ransom. I thought Shep told you -
The new vehicle, plus forty thousand dollars.
No, that's not it, Jerry.
...So I guess that's it, then. Here's the keys -
Yah, you don't need that. Now were you thinking of financing here? You oughta be aware a this GMAC plan they have now, it's really super -
Yah, I don't need no sealant though.
Yah, ya got yer, this loaded here, this has yer independent, uh, yer slipped differential, uh, yer rack- and-pinion steering, yer alarm and radar, and I can give it to ya with a heck of a sealant, this TruCoat stuff, it'll keep the salt off -
Oh, for Christ's sake, where's my goddamn checkbook. Let's get this over with.
One hunnert's the best we can do here.
One hundred! You lied to me, Mr. Lundegaard. You're a bald-faced liar!
Well, he never done this before, but seein' as it's special circumstances and all, he says I can knock one hunnert off that TruCoat.
Well, okay, I'll talk to my boss...
You called me twenty minutes ago and said you had it! Ready to make delivery, ya says! Come on down and get it! And here ya are and you're wastin' my time and you're wastin' my wife's time and I'm payin' nineteen- five for this vehicle here!
Okay, I'm not sayin' I didn't -
We had us a deal here for nineteen- five. You sat there and darned if you didn't tell me you'd get this car, these options, WITHOUT THE SEALANT, for nineteen-five!
Yah, but this TruCoat -
You're sittin' here, you're talkin' in circles! You're talkin' like we didn't go over this already!
Yah, but I'm sayin', that TruCoat, you don't get it and you get oxidization problems. It'll cost you a heck of lot more'n five hunnert -
I sat right here and said I didn't want no TruCoat!
Yah, but that TruCoat -
We sat here right in this room and went over this and over this!
Oh, don't be silly.
Well, okay - thank you, Detective.
Oh, don't be silly.
Oh, no, I can't let you do that.
Both of these.
Where'd you get him that parka?
Yah, he -
Oh, he's adorable.
He's three now. Course, not in that picture.
Oh, now he's adorable.
I thought you'd never ask. The older one is Janet, she's nine, and the younger one is Morgan.
You have children?
They can really take over, that's for sure.
Oh, yah, I know that!
That's wonderful. Mm-mm. It'll change your life, a course.
This'll be our first. We've been waiting a long time.
End a April.
Ah, well, we haven't had to run around like you. When're you due?
Ya got that right.
Yah, got a front movin' in.
Oh sure. They say she's gonna turn cold tomorrow.
Okay, well, thanks a bunch, Mr. Mohra. You're right, it's probably nothin', but thanks for callin' her in.
Just a general way.
Uh-huh - in what way?
Oh, he was a little guy, kinda funny- lookin'.
What'd this guy look like anyways?
So, ya know, he's drinkin', so I don't think a whole great deal of it, but Mrs. Mohra heard about the homicides out here and she thought I should call it in, so I called it in. End a story.
Well, Ecklund & Swedlin's, that's closer ta Moose Lake, so I made that assumption.
White Bear Lake?
And he says, 'Yah, that guy's dead and I don't mean a old age.' And then he says, 'Geez, I'm goin' crazy out there at the lake.'
Ya got that right.
And then he calls me a jerk and says the last guy who thought he was a jerk was dead now. So I don't say nothin' and he says, 'What do ya think about that?' So I says, 'Well, that don't sound like too good a deal for him then.'
So he says, 'So I get it, so you think I'm some kinda jerk for askin',' only he doesn't use the word jerk.
...So, I'm tendin' bar there at Ecklund & Swedlin's last Tuesday and this little guy's drinkin' and he says, 'So where can a guy find some action - I'm goin' crazy down there at the lake.' And I says, 'What kinda action?' and he says, 'Woman action, what do I look like,' And I says 'Well, what do I look like, I don't arrange that kinda thing,' and he says, 'I'm goin' crazy out there at the lake' and I says, 'Well, this ain't that kinda place.'
How ya doin'?
Oh, yah? Twin Cities?
...Yah, okay, I think I'll drive down there, then.
Shep Proudfoot. That's a name.
Uh-huh... A what?
First one's a trucking company, second one's a private residence. A Shep Proudfoot.
The numbers y'asked for, calls made from the lobby pay phone at the Blue Ox. Two to Minneapolis that night.
No, I gotta - hey, Norm, I thought you were goin' fishin' up at Mile Lacs?
Pretty darn good, ya want some?
Hiya, Norm. How ya doin', Margie? How's the fricassee?
They said they were goin' to the Twin Cities?
And what about the other fella?
No. Like I say, he was funny-looking. More'n most people even.
Is there anything else you can tell me about him?
So you were having sex with the little fella, then?
Was he funny-looking apart from that?
I couldn't really say. He wasn't circumcised.
Can you be any more specific?
I dunno. Just funny-looking.
In what way?
Well, the little guy, he was kinda funny-looking.
Where you girls from?
Yah, that can happen.
A subconscious-type thing.
Yah. Maybe I'm sayin' that cause he smoked Marlboros.
He was a little older. Looked like the Marlboro man.
Okay, I want you to tell me what these fellas looked like.
LeSeure. But I went to high school in White Bear Lake.
...What's the big deal? It's an hour -
Okay. Well, that's why we don't want ya goin' out fer hockey.
You know what a disparity is?
And yet you're gettin' C grades. It's this disparity there that concerns your dad and me.
You're not a C student.
I'm talkin' about your potential.
No, no. See - they, no, see, they only deal with me. Ya feel this, this nervousness on the phone there, they're very - these guys're dangerous -
Wade's got a point there. I'll handle the call if you want, Jerry.
Yah, geez, Scotty. I'll go talk to him.
Okay. And Scotty, is he gonna be all right?
Ya know, they said no one listenin' in, they'll be watchin', ya know. Maybe it's all bull, but like you said, Stan, they're callin' the shots.
No, I - they don't want - they're just s'posed to be dealin' with me, they were real clear.
Okay. We'll get the money together. Don't worry about it, Jerry. Now, d'you want anyone at home, with you, until they call?
They're gonna call, give me instructions for a drop. I'm supposed to have the money ready tomorrow.
What's the next step here, Jerry?
We're not horse-trading here, Wade, we just gotta bite the bullet on this thing.
Jerry, we're not just going to give you seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
No, see, I don't need a finder's fee, I need - finder's fee's, what, ten percent, heck that's not gonna do it for me. I need the principal.
You're sayin' - what're you sayin'?
Yah, right -
Jerry - we thought you were bringin' us an investment.
...My fee? Wade, what the heck're you talkin' about?
The financials are pretty thorough, so the only thing we don't know is your fee.
Oh, those numbers are all right, bleemee.
Good to see ya again, Jerry. If these numbers are right, this looks pretty sweet.
They're playin' the Buckeyes!
You wouldn't have an extra ticket there?
So you're goin' to the Gophers on Sunday?
We're gonna get Mom back for ya, but we gotta play ball. Ya know, that's the deal. Now if Lorraine calls, or Sylvia, you just say that Mom is in Florida with Pearl and Marty...
Yeah, but -
No! We can't let anyone know about this thing! We gotta play ball with these guys - you ask Stan Grossman, he'll tell ya the same thing!
Dad, I really think we should call the cops.
No, no, nothin's goin' wrong here. Grandad and I, we're - we're makin' sure this gets handled right.
What if - what if sumpn goes wrong?
It's okay, Scotty. They're not gonna want to hurt her any. These men, they just want money, see.
Dad! What're they doing? Wuddya think they're doin' with Mom?
...How ya doin' there, Scotty?
Look, Dad, there is no fucking way -
I'm sorry, sir, I -
...If it's so damned important to ya!
Sure right now! You're darned tootin'!
Sir? Right now?
Okay, I'll do a damned lot count!
I'm not, uh, I'm not arguin' here. I'm cooperating... There's no, uh - we're doin' all we can...
Sir, you have no call to get snippy with me. I'm just doin' my job here.
Ma'am, I answered your question. I answered the darn - I'm cooperating here, and I...
... I'm sorry, sir?
Ma'am, I answered your question.
I know, but - well, how do you establish that, sir? Are the cars, uh, counted daily or what kind of -
We run a pretty tight ship here.
Yah, but -
Well, I would know. I'm the Executive Sales Manager.
but do you know that for sure without -
The car's not from our lot, ma'am.
So how do you - have you done any kind of inventory recently?
Yah, I see.
Okay, are you sure, cause, I mean, how do you know? Because, see, the crime I'm investigating, the perpetrators were driving a car with dealer plates. And they called someone who works here, so it'd be quite a coincidence if they weren't, ya know, connected.
Yah, like I told ya, we haven't had any vehicles go missing.
Yah, it's this vehicle I asked you about yesterday. I was just wondering -
No, I -
I unnerstand. I'll keep it real short, then. I'm on my way out of town, but I was just - Do you mind if I sit down? I'm carrying a bit of a load here.
Yah, no, I'm kinda - I'm kinda busy -
Okey-dokey, thanks a bunch. I'll let you get back to your paperwork, then.
No. No, ma'am.
Yah, ya know we've got the big statue there. So you haven't had any vehicles go missing, then?
...Babe the Blue Ox?
Yah. Yah. Home a Paul Bunyan and Babe the Blue Ox.
Uh-huh. Well, I'm a police officer from up Brainerd investigating some malfeasance and I was just wondering if you've had any new vehicles stolen off the lot in the past couple of weeks - specifically a tan Cutlass Ciera?
My father-in-law, he's the owner.
Well, you can help me. My name's Marge Gunderson -
Naw, I... Executive Sales Manager.
...You're the owner here, Mr. Lundegaard?
Huh? Do you mind if I sit down - I'm carrying quite a load here.
What... What is it all about?
I wonder if I could take just a minute of your time here -
Be back in a minute. If Stan calls you, just tell him I went to Embers. Oh, geez -
Where're you going?
It's okay, Scotty.
Good day, sir.
My patience is at an end.
Mr. Lundegaard, that very well may be. I must inform you, however, that absent the receipt of those numbers by tomorrow afternoon, I will have to refer this matter to our legal department.
Yah! I... those are in the mail.
This is Reilly Deifenbach at GMAC. Sir, I have not yet received those vehicle IDs you promised me.
What the - how's Jean?
Things have changed. Circumstances, Jerry. Beyond the, uh... acts of God, force majeure..
Well, what do ya mean?
Circumstances have changed, Jerry.
Well, yah, I got an idea. How's that Ciera workin' out for ya?
Know who this is?
All right, Jerry, you got this phone to yourself?
Okay, real good, then.
I mean send it over. I'll shoot it right over to ya.
No, no, fax is -
Yah, no problem, I'll just fax that over to ya, then.
Three hundred and twenty thousand dollars. See, I gotta correlate that money with the cars it's being lent on.
Yah, how much money was that?
Okay, because if I can't correlate this note with the specific vehicles, then I gotta call back that money -
Yah, okay, I'll have my girl send you over a copy, then.
No, fax is no good, that's what I have and I can't read the darn thing -
Well, but see, I don't have 'em in front a me - why don't I just fax you over a copy -
I'm sure they do - ha ha! But I can't read their serial numbers here. So if you could read me -
Yah, well, they exist all right.
Yeah, but we have an audit here, I just have to know that these vehicles you're financing with this money, that they really exist.
But the deal's already done, I already got the money -
Yeah, but the vehicles you were borrowing on, I just can't read the serial numbers on your application. Maybe if you could just read them to me -
Yah, so we're all set.
Yeah, the three hundred and twenty thousand dollars, you got the money last month.
But I already got the, it's okay, the loans are in place, I already got the, the what, the -
That's for sure. Now, I just need, on these last, these financing documents you sent us, I can't read the serial numbers of the vehicles on here, so I -
Yah, it's pretty darned busy here, but that's the way we like it.
Pretty good, Mr. Lundegaard. You're damned hard to get on the phone.
Yah, real good. How you doin'?
Yah, real good.
Thank you, hon. How's Fargo?
Hon? Got the growshries.
Yah, no, I'm sure you are. Shep vouched for you and all. I got every confidence in you fellas.
Sure, Jerry, we're all set. Why wouldn't we be?
Yah, how ya doin'. So, uh, we all set on this thing, then?
Yeah, okay. Well, siddown then. I'm Carl Showalter and this is my associate Gaear Grimsrud.
Yah, you bet. It's in the lot there. Brand-new burnt umber Ciera.
Ya got the car?
I'm sure sorry. I - Shep told me 8:30. It was a mix-up, I guess.
We been sitting here an hour. I've peed three times already.
Shep said 8:30.
Shep said you'd be here at 7:30. What gives, man?
Yah, Shep Proudfoot said -
Well... I'm goin' ta bed now.
Are you calling Stan?
...Is everything okay?
Stan Grossman called.
Look, Jerry, you're not sellin' me a damn car. It's my show here. That's that.
No, see -
...There's a million dollars here!
They want my money, they can deal with me. Otherwise I'm goin' to a professional. He points at a briefcase.
The heck d'ya mean?
All the more reason! I don't want you - with all due respect, Jerry - I don't want you mucking this up.
It's my money, I'll deliver it - what do they care?
No, Wade! They were real clear! They said they'd call tomorrow, with instructions, and it's gonna be delivered by me alone!
Dammit! I wanna be a part a this thing!
Now come on here, no way, Wade! No way!
... Stan, I'm thinkin' we should offer 'em half a million.
You're darned tootin'!
No! No cops! That's final! This is my deal here, Wade! Jean is my wife here!
Heck, you don't know! You're just whistlin' Dixie here! I'm sayin', the cops, they can advise us on this! I'm sayin' call a professional!
Yah, but think this thing through here, Wade. Ya give 'em what they want, why wont' they let her go? You gotta listen to me on this one, Wade.
A million dollars is a lot a damn money! And there they are, they got my daughter!
Well, they -
Well, a course they're gonna say that! But where's my protection? They got Jean here! I give these sons a bitches a million dollars, where's my guarantee they're gonna let her go.
No! They said no cops! They were darned clear on that, Wade! They said you call the cops and we -
- All's I know is, ya got a problem, ya call a professional!
I'm not talkin' about your damn word, Jerry. Geez, what the heck're you?... Well, look, I don't want to cut you out of the loop, but his here's a good deal. I assume, if you're not innarested, you won't mind if we move on it independently.
Yah, but I - okay, I would, I'd guarantee ya your money back.
What the heck were you thinkin'? Heck, if I'm only gettin' bank interest, I'd look for complete security. Heck, FDIC. I don't see nothin' like that here.
No, no. I - I'd, I'd - pay you back the principal, and interest heck, I'd go - one over prime -
You're sayin' that we put in all the money and you collect when it pays off?
No, but, Wade, see, I was bringin' you this deal for you to loan me the money to put in. It's my deal here, see?
But we never talked about your fee for bringin' it to us.
We're good to loan in.
Stan and I're okay.
What kind of finder's fee were you looking for?
Yah, thanks, Stan, it's a pretty -
Come by at 2:30 and we'll talk about it. If your numbers are right, Stan says its pretty sweet. Stan Grossman.
No kiddin'! I'd need the cash pretty quick there. In order to close the deal.
We might be innarested.
Stan Grossman looked at your proposal. Says it's pretty sweet.
Oh, nothing, Wade. How ya doin' there?
What's goin' on there?
How ya doin', Wade?
Jean and Scotty never have to worry.
Well, you know Stan'll say no dice. That's why you pay him. I'm asking you here, Wade. This could work out real good for me and Jean and Scotty -
I thought you were gonna show it to Stan Grossman. He passes on this stuff before it gets kicked up to me.
Yah, well, it's a chunk, but -
Yah, well, seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars is a lot - ha ha ha!
I mean a parking lot.
I know it's a lot.
lot. It's a limited -
A heck of a lot. What'd you say you were gonna put there?
Yah, you said you'd have a think about it. I understand it's a lot of money -
You told me about it.
Wade, have ya had a chance to think about, uh, that deal I was talkin' about, those forty acres there on Wayzata?
OOOoooh! His reaction synchronizes with a reaction from the crowd.
...Who they playin'?
Whatcha watchin' there?
Yah, pretty good.
Yah, well, see, I did that, and I haven't been able to get 'em, so I thought you maybe'd know an alternate number or what have ya.
Call 'em up.
Well, that's okay, he's a buddy of the guy ya vouched for, so I'm not worryin'. I just, I was wonderin', see, I gotta get in touch with 'em for, I might not need it anymore, sumpn's happenin', see -
Never heard of him. Don't vouch for him.
I vouch for Grimsrud. Who's his buddy?
Well, that's okay, I just -
Well, I don't vouch for him.
Well, yah, but he had a buddy there. He, uh -
Put you in touch with Grimsrud.
Say, ya know those two fellas ya put me in touch with, up there in Fargo?
Say, Shep, how ya doin' there?
Yah. Owner was on the desk then, said these two guys had company.
Geez, that's a good lead. The Blue Ox, that's that trucker's joint out there on I-35?
No motels registered any tan Ciera last night. But the night before, two men checked into the Blue Ox registering a Ciera and leavin' the tag space blank.
How we doin' on that vehicle?
Yah, that's a good one.
Yah. Say, Lou, ya hear the one about the guy who couldn't afford personalized plates, so he went and changed his name to J2L 4685?
Yah, I think that vehicle there probly had dealer plates. DLR?
I'm not sure I agree with you a hunnert percent on your policework, there, Lou.
So I got the state lookin' for a Ciera with a tag startin' DLR. They don't got no match yet.
...Last vehicle he wrote in was a tan Ciera at 2:18 a.m. Under the plate number he put DLR - I figure they stopped him or shot him before he could finish fillin' out the tag number.
You look in his citation book?
No, no, I just wanna get Norm some night crawlers.
You don't think he's mixed up in -
Heck, yah. Ya think, is Dave open yet?
Yah, woulda been cold out here.
Somebody shut his lights. I guess the little guy sat in there, waitin' for his buddy t'come back.
You haven't monkeyed with his car there, have ya?
Well, he's got his gun on his hip there, and he looks like a nice enough guy. It's a real shame.
How's it look, Marge?
Yah, this guy's smaller than his buddy.
There's two of 'em, Lou!
Let's go take a look at that trooper.
Yah? Well, what now, d'ya think?
Oh, yah. Norm made some eggs.
You had breakfast yet, Margie?
Yah. Now I'm hungry again.
...Well, that passed.
I'm fine - it's just morning sickness.
Geez, you okay, Margie?
Uh - I just, I think I'm gonna barf.
Ya see something down there, Chief?
I'd be very surprised if our suspect was from Brainerd.
Okay, so we got a state trooper pulls someone over, we got a shooting, and these folks drive by, and we got a high-speed pursuit, ends here, and this execution-type deal.
Well - it's cold, Margie.
Where is everybody?
Yah, looks pretty bad. Two of'm're over here.
Yah, thanks a bunch. So what's the deal, now? Gary says triple homicide?
Margie. Thought you might need a little warm-up.
...I'll fix ya some eggs.
Ya gotta eat a breakfast...
Aw, you can sleep, hon.
Gotta eat a breakfast, Marge. I'll fix ya some eggs.
That's okay, hon. I gotta run.
I'll fix ya some eggs.
...You can sleep, hon. It's early yet.
It's okay, Mike...
You were such a super lady... and then I... I been so lonely...
...I'm sorry... I shouldn't a done this... I thought we'd have a really terrific time, and now I've...
No - I'm sorry! It's just - I been so lonely - then I saw you, and...
It's okay, Mike - Should we get together another time, ya think?
I always liked ya so much...
Well, I always liked you, Mike.
I was so... I been so... and then I saw you on TV, and I remembered, ya know... I always liked you...
Oh, ya know, that's, uh - what can I say?...
I'm sorry, Mike.
It was a tough, uh... it was a long - She fought real hard, Marge...
No, I didn't...
Yah, I, uh... She had leukemia, you know...
Yah, well, I, uh... it's not that it didn't work out - Linda passed away. She, uh...
It sounds like you're doin' really super.
Yah, if you're an engineer, yah, you could do a lot worse. Of course, it's not, uh, it's nothin' like your achievement.
Well, they're a good outfit.
And then I, and then I been workin' for Honeywell for a few years now.
I think I remember Linda, yah. She was - yah. So things didn't work out, huh?
Yah, sorry, so I was married to Linda Cooksey - ya remember Linda? She was a year behind us.
No, no, that's fine.
Oh, sure, I unnerstand, I didn't mean to -
No, just so I can see ya, ya know. Don't have to turn my neck.
Huh? Oh, okay, I'm sorry.
No, I - Mike - wyncha sit over there, I'd prefer that.
...I was married to Linda Cooksey -
Well, yah, I was married. I was married to - You mind if I sit over here?
Oh, yah, but there's not a heckuva lot to discuss. What about you, Mike? Are you married - you have kids?
Great. What brings ya down - are ya down here on that homicide - if you're allowed, ya know, to discuss that?
Oh, yah, a long time ago.
Oh, yah, couple years now. It's actually Eden Prarie - that school district. So Chief Gunderson, then! So ya went and married Norm Son-of- a-Gunderson!
You're livin' in Edina, then?
Yah, ya know it's the Radisson, so it's pretty good.
...This is a nice place.
Just a Diet Coke.
...What can I get ya?
I see that! That's great!
Yah - easy there - you do too! I'm expecting, ya know.
Geez! You look great!
Yah... Yah, yah. Geeze, Margie!
Heck, it's been such a long time, Mike. It's great to hear from ya.
Oh, pretty good.
Yah - how are you doon?
Okay, ya know. Okay.
Well, how the heck are ya?
Yah, that's me.
I thought, geez, is that Margie Olmstead? I can't believe it!
Yah, I'm down in the Twin Cities and I was just watching on TV about these shootings up in Brainerd, and I saw you on the news there.
No, that's okay.
Oh, geez. It's quarter to eleven. I hope I dint wake you.
Yah, yah, course I remember. How are ya? What time is it?
So you think you might remember who those folks were who called ya?
...I know you don't want to be an accessory to something like that.
Now, I saw some rough stuff on your priors, but nothing in the nature of a homicide...
Well, associating with criminals, if you're the one they talked to, that right there would be a violation of your parole and would end with you back in Stillwater.
...Now, I know you've had some problems, struggling with the narcotics, some other entanglements, currently on parole -
Well, Mr. Proudfoot, this call came in past three in the morning. It's just hard for me to believe you can't remember anyone calling.
Anyone else residing there?
Well, you do reside their at 1425 Fremont Terrace?
Yah, Menominie only has Chief Perpich and he takes February off to go to Boundary Waters.
Yes, ma'am. Are we the closest PD?
Copy. Yah, send me back-up!
Don't go in! Wait for back-up!
My car! My car! Tan Ciera!
There's the car! There's the car!
We've got a -
Yah, it's over the wire, it's everywhere, they'll find 'em.
Yah, the loudmouth. So the whole state has it, Lundegaard and Gustafson?
Oh. Gary's loudmouth.
Oh, I'm almost back - I'm driving around Moose Lake.
Yah. Where are ya, Margie?
Copy. And Lundegaard too.
Still missing. We're looking.
Sorry - didn't copy.
But we still haven't found Gustafson.
Lundegaard's father-in-law's accountant.
And this guy is...
The day of our homicides.
His wife. This guy says she was kidnapped last Wednesday.
Geez. Well - geez. That's a suprise.
Yah, Linda's fine. You should call her.
Yah, he - he's been struggling. He's living with his parents now.
Oh. Oh, my.
No. No. They never married. Mike's had psychiatric problems.
So... they didn't...
No. No. No. They weren't - he, uh, he was bothering Linda for about, oh, for a good year. Really pestering her, wouldn't leave her alone.
Well, it was nothin' specific he said, it just seemd like it all hit him really hard, his wife dyin' -
What'd he say?
Mm. But ya think he's all right? saw him last night and he's -
Well, I'm sorry I won't see ya.
No, I'm leavin' this mornin', back up to Brainerd.
This is Mike Yanagita. Ya know - Mike Yanagita. Remember me?
...Well, yah. Who's this?
Yah, is this Marge?
I love you, Norm.
I love you, Margie.
Yah, I guess.
When they're stuck with a bunch a the old ones!
Oh, for Pete's - a course they do! Every time they raise the darned postage, people need the little stamps!
Hautman's blue-winged teal got the twenty-nine cent. People don't much use the three-cent.
It's just the three cent.
Norm, that's terrific!
They announced it?
Yah, it's good. No pike yet, but it's good.
Yah, not too bad. So it's nice up there?
Was it reasonable?
Had dinner at a place called the King's Table. Buffet style. It was pretty darn good.
You shouldn't be on your feet too much, you got weight you're not used too. How's the food down there?
Not on your feet too much?
Yeah, couple a muskies. No pike yet. How d'you feel?
Oh, pretty good. They bitin'?
Yah, okay. How's the hotel?
Yah, ya think?
They're good, Norm, but you're better'n them.
They're real good.
Aw, hon, you're better'n them.
Pretty good. Found out the Hautmans are entering a painting this year.
...How's the paintin' goin'?
You bet. Thanks for lunch. What do we got here, Arbie's?
Prowler needs a jump.
Love ya, Margie.
Thanks, hon. Time to shove off.
Yah. Well, I just can't thank you enough, Detective Sibert, this cooperation has been outstanding.
Well, they're all out on the wire. Well, you know...
Boy, this thing is really... geez.
And this Shep Proudfoot character, he's a little darling. He's now wanted for assault and parole violation. He clobbered a neighbor of his last night and another person who could be one of your perps, and he's at large.
His wife's in the hospital, has been for a couple months. The big C.
Geez. Looks like this thing goes higher than we thought. You call his home?
She's visiting relatives in Florida. Now his boss, this guy Gustafson, he's also disappeared. Nobody at his office knows where he is.
And his wife?
We called his house; his little boy said he hadn't been there.
Well... Why don't we...
I'm tellin' ya.
We gotta protect Jean. These - we're not holdin' any cards here, Wade, they got all of 'em. So they call the shots.
I gotta tell ya, Wade, I'm leanin' to Jerry's viewpoint here.
He's at -
He's at Norstar.
What the heck, Jerry, if I wanted bank interest on seven hunnert'n fifty thousand I'd go to Midwest Federal. Talk to Bill Diehl.
This is do-able.
He was killed serving Project Mayhem.
No! Look at you! You're... you're running around in ski masks, exploding things...
He was killed in action.
Get your hands off him! Get off...! What the hell do you think you're doing... ? Evidence?! This is a man... ! You killed him!
The garden. Take him there. Move, people. Let's do this!
The first rule of Project --
That wouldn't interest you.
I'm afraid I have to insist you leave.
You are a moron.
I'm not disclosed to bespeak any such information to you, nor would I, even if I had said information you want, at this juncture be able.
Look at my face. I'm a member. I just need to know if you've seen Tyler Durden.
I'm sorry, I haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about.
There's no one else here.
Sir, you're disturbing the other patrons with your laudish behavior.
I need to know where Tyler is. Can't you help me?
You know about the guy who invented it? I hear all kinds of things. Supposedly, he was born in a mental institution. They say he only sleeps one hour a night. You know about this guy? Tyler Durden?
Yeah, both of us.
That's a fucking great, man! Fucking great! Congratulations.
Look at my face.
Bob, Bob... I'm a member.
And the second rule about it is... you're not supposed to talk about it. And the third rule...
The first rule is... you aren't supposed to talk about it...
Really, what's that?
No. I found something new.
Really? Great. Still "Remaining Men Together?"
Better than I've ever been in my life.
Bob. I'm okay. How are you?
Cornelius! How are you?
Strangers with this kind of honesty make me go a big rubbery one.
...using steroids. I was a juicer. Diabonol, then, Wisterol -- it's for racehorses, for Christsake. Now I'm bankrupt, divorced, my two grown kids won't return my calls...
Bob was a champion bodybuilder. You know that chest expansion program you see on TV? That was his idea.
They're gonna have to open my pec's again to drain the fluid.
Six months ago, Bob's testicles were removed. Then hormone therapy. He developed bitch tits because his testosterone was too high and his body upped the estrogen. That was where my head fit -- into his huge, sweating tits that hung enormous, the way we think of God's as big.
Yes. We're men. Men is what we are.
We're still men.
This was a support group for men with testicular cancer. The big moosie slobbering all over me was Bob.
What about this? Keep me on payroll as an outside consultant. In exchange for my salary, I'll keep my mouth shut. I won't need to come to the office. I can do this job from home.
Just who the fuck do you think you are?! Get out! You're fired!
Let's pretend. You're the Department of Transportation, and you discover that our company intentionally did nothing about leather seats cured in third world countries with chemicals we know cause birth defects? Brake linings that fail after a thousand miles. Fuel injectors that burn people alive.
I Am Jack's Complete Lack of Surprise.
Okay. Where to begin? With your constant absenteeism? With your unpresentable appearance? You're up for review...
We need to talk.
Pretend you're me. You find this. What would you do?
"Abuse" the copy machine. There's an image.
You don't get paid to abuse the copy machine.
"The second rule of fight club... Is this yours?
I must've left the original in the copy machine.
Some of it, yes.
Is that your blood?
Have you finished those reports?
After fight club, everything else in your life gets the volume turned down. You can deal with anything.
Here are your flight coupons. Call me from the road if there are any snags. Your itinerary...
He was full of pep. Must've had his grande latte enema.
You need to make these your primary "action items."
You want me to de-prioritize my current reports until you advise of a status upgrade?
It must've been Tuesday. he was wearing his "cornflower-blue" tie.
I'm going to need you out-of-town a little more this week. We've got some "red-flags" to cover.
Well, if any ideas come to you, give me a call. In the meantime, don't leave town. I may need to bring you in for questioning.
I'd like to thank the academy...
No. No, sir. I loved that condo. I loved every stick of furniture. The lamps, the chairs, the rugs, were me. The dishes were me. The plants were...
I'll ask the questions, son.
Who do you think could've done this?
Whoever set this homemade dynamite could've blown out the pilot light days before the explosion. The gas, it seems, was just a detonator.
This is... really a shock...
It means it was homemade.
What does that mean?
Yes. It left a residue of ammonium oxalate and potassium perchloride. Do you know what that means?
Yes, sire, strange. Very strange.
Does this sound strange to you?
I am Jack's Cold Sweat.
No, I wasn't aware...
I don't know if you're aware... your front door -- it seems someone sprayed freon into the lock, then tapped it with a chisel to shatter the cylinder.
This is Detective Stern with the arson unit. We have some new information about the "incident" at your condo.
You want to see pain? Swing by First Methodist Tuesday nights. See the guys with testicular cancer. That's pain.
I'm in pain.
You need healthy, natural sleep. Chew valerian root and get some more exercise.
Red-and-blue Tuinal, lipstick-red Seconals.
Can't you give me something?
You need to lighten up.
Maybe I died already. Look at my face.
No, you can't die of insomnia.
I did, I think. But, I'm okay... I'm fine...
Who did this to you?
My God, you're shot...
What happened... ?
Yes, fine. Just, get on. Stay away a couple of weeks, at least.
I'm not paying this back. I consider it "asshole tax."
I can't let myself see where you're going. Go wherever it takes you, remember... keep away from major cities...
Why are you doing this?
I'm begging you. Get on the bus. Get on the bus.
Okay, if that's what it takes, you'll never have to see me again. Here... here...
Leave me alone! I don't ever want to see you again!
Do this for me, Marla. Do this for me, if you never do anything else...
Let go of me!
What?! You're sorry? I don't believe that for a minute.
I'm sorry, but I...
There's a part of you I really like, but I can't do this anymore. I just can't. This is killing me...
No, no, shut up! I've had enough. I tried, Tyler... I have tried...
You are an insane person.
You have to get out of here. Leave as soon as possible. Go to any rural town, away from any major city...
I'm trying to tell you -- and this is where you have to trust me -- but, I think your life might be in real danger.
Whatever. I'll take my food to go...
I mean, the depth and breadth of our relationship has only recently been illuminated for me. I know this... I know us hasn't been such a great thing for you...
I deserve that. Anyway, I've... I've only just realized
Two sides? You're Dr. Jeckle and Mr. Jackass.
I know that I've been... unwell. I know it's been like there's two sides to me.
You got about thirty seconds.
Then, I'll have the clam chowder... fried chicken and a baked potato with everything and a chocolate chiffon pie.
Because... I'm Tyler Durden.
I've done you enough favors.
Absolutely, you have every right. I need you to do me a favor.
Sixty seconds, then I'm out of here.
Give me a minute, Marla, alright... just sixty seconds.
I don't want to hear anything you've got to say.
Here comes an avalanche of bullshit.
Marla... I need to talk to you. It's going to take a tremendous act of faith on your part for you to hear me out.
The were burning their fingertips with lye. The stink was unbelievable.
I'm sorry, I...
Your whacked-out, bald freaks hit me with a fucking broom. I thought they were going to break my arm.
Marla, no, wait...
Tyler Durden! Tyler Durden, you fucking freak. What's going on? I'm coming over there...
Say my name! What's my name!?
Say my name.
What is wrong with you?
What did you say... ?
We've just lost cabin pressure.
You fuck me, then snub me. You love me, you hate me. You show me your sensitive side, then you turn into a total asshole! Is that a pretty accurate description of our relationship, Tyler?
Answer the question!
Is that what you're calling it?
We did make love?
You mean, you want to know if I think we were just having sex or making love?
Will you just answer me, for Christsake?!
Is this a trick?
Because the answer's "yes" or because the answer's "no?"
What kind of stupid question is that?!
Marla, it's me. Have we... have we ever had sex?
He's not here! Tyler's not here anymore! He's gone away!
He's not here.
Can I come in?
The Paper Street Soap Company.
You're afraid to say.
Let go of me... Leave me alone.
Why would you get bent if I asked?
Why would you ask if it's a guy or a girl?!
Guy or girl?
... A person.
What is this? Who did this?
That day you came over to my place to play doctor... what was going on there?
Have we been talking too long? Must we change the subject?
That... sawing and hammering.
You hear that?
What do you get out of it?
I don't understand. Why does a weak person have to go out and find a strong person... to hang onto?
It was the smart move on her part.
I don't know.
Do you care?
Really... I mean it. Have you been going to your groups?
You... don't have to... leave.
Well... thanks, anyway.
Uh ... nah.
I could check your prostate.
I think everything's okay here.
I wish I could return the favor.
No... no problem.
Well, that's a relief. Thank you.
You feel nothing?
Okay. Okay, I'm sure.
Tragically, they're dead. I'm alive and I'm in poverty. You want any?
This is a sweet side of you. Picking these up for ... "Mrs. Haniver" and... "Mrs. Raines." Where are they?
She didn't call Tyler. I'm neutral in her book.
I don't know ...
Would you do something for me? I need you to check and see if there's a lump in my breast. I can't afford to throw money away on a doctor.
What are you talking about?
You're such a nutcase, I can't even begin to keep up.
Don't worry, I'm leaving.
It's time for you to leave.
It suits you.
Like sex crime victims, underwear inside-out, bound with electrical tape.
Worth every penny.
I got this dress at a thrift store for one dollar.
Except for their humping, Tyler and Marla were never in the same room.
What the hell are you doing here?
What are you doing here?
Do you want to wait to hear me describe death?
So you're staying in tonight?
This could go on for hours.
This isn't a for-real suicide thing. This is probably one of those cry-for- help things.
Picture yourself watching Marla Singer throw herself around her crummy apartment.
Me too. I got a stomach full of Xanax. I took what was left of a bottle. Might've been too much.
I'm just on my way out...
I've been going to debtor's anonymous. You want to see some truly fucked up people?
Look, this is a bad time...
Like testicular cancer?
It's for men.
I found a new one.
You haven't been going to yours.
That's the idea -- we split them.
The forwarding number. I haven't seen you at any support groups.
How did you find me?
Where have you been the last few weeks?
In case we want to switch nights.
Um... Marla, should we maybe exchange numbers?
Let's not make a big thing out of it.
Looks like this is goodbye.
We'll split it. You get it the first and third Sunday of the month.
That's your favorite, too? Tried to slip it by me, eh?
The girl had done her homework.
So, we each have three -- that's six. What about the seventh day? I want ascending bowel cancer.
Then, take blood parasites. It's yours. Now we each have three.
So far, you have four and I only have two!
You can't have the whole brain!
I want that.
Okay. I'll take blood parasites and organic brain dementia --
I want brain parasites.
You can't have both parasites. You can take blood parasites --
I'll take the parasites.
I don't know -- am I?
Well, technically, I have more of a right to be there than you. You still have your balls.
I think testicular cancer should be no contest.
You take tuberculosis. My smoking doesn't go over at all.
We'll split up the week. You can have lymphoma, tuberculosis and --
Please. Can't we do something... ?
Candy-stripe a cancer ward. It's not my problem.
Look, I can't cry with a faker present.
It becomes an addiction.
-- Instead of just waiting for their turn to speak.
I... I don't know. I guess... when people think you're dying, they really listen, instead...
Anyone who might've noticed either died or recovered and never came back.
A year? How'd you manage that?
These are my groups. I was here first. I've been coming for a year.
It's cheaper than a movie, and there's free coffee.
Why are you doing this?
Go ahead. I'll expose you.
I'll expose you.
Telling me off. Is it going as well as you hoped... ? "... Mr. Taylor."
And I saw you practicing this...
Okay, in the Sylvia Plath philosophy way, we're all dying. But you're not dying the way Chloe is dying.
I'm on to you. You're a faker. You aren't dying.
We need to talk.
You fucking slut!!
... and you come home to this.
Well... let me see... here's the thing...
I star-sixty-nined you. I never pick up my phone. What's up?
I just called a second ago. There was no answer. I'm at a payphone.
Uh... I'm sorry. We met on the plane. We had the same briefcase. I'm... you know, the clever guy.
Please return your seatbacks to their full upright and locked position.
You're the one who did this to me. You're Mr. Durden, sir. Tyler Durden.
Is this part of the test?
Who do you think I am?
You were standing right where you are now, asking how good our security is. It's tight as a drum.
You were in here last Thursday night.
Yes... it's a test.
Is this a test, sir?
... You know me?
How have you been?
Yeah, uh huh... yeah? Oh...
I had everything in that bag. My C.K. shirts... my D.K.N.Y. shoes...
Nine time out of ten, it's an electric razor. But, every once in a while ... ...it's a dildo. It's airline policy not to imply ownership in the event of a dildo. We use the indefinite aricle: "A dildo." Never "Your dildo."
My suitcase was vibrating?
Baggage handlers. But when a suitcase vibrates, the throwers have to call the police.
Excuse me? "Throwers?"
Throwers don't worry about ticking. Modern bombs don't tick.
You're a tourist. I saw you at melanoma, tuberculosis and testicular cancer.
Tell the other person how you feel.
Now, find your power animal.
If I did have a tumor, I'd name it Marla. Marla...the little scratch on the roof of your mouth that would heal if only you could stop tonguing it, but you can't.
-- But, in here, in everyone, there's the squint of a five-day headache. Yet they forced themselves to be positive. They never said "parasite;" they said "agent." They always talked about getting better.
...And you open the door and you step inside. We're inside our hearts. Now, imaging your pain as a white ball of healing light. That's right, the pain itself is a ball of healing light.
I wasn't really dying, I wasn't host to cancer or parasites; I was the warm little center that the life of this world crowded around.
Tonight, we're going to open the green door -- the heart chakra...
My eyes are open.
Look at me...
Do something for me.
It's the only way to get rid of you...
Why are you going with this, Ikea- boy?
Not my mouth. Our mouth.
Why do you want to do that? Why do you want to put that gun in your mouth?
What have you left for me?
What are you doing?
You will. You know you will.
I swear on my life, I won't...
If I leave, you will be right back where I found you...
Please understand... I've gotten all I can from this, Tyler.
I'm doing this for us.
Why are you doing this?!
No more running off without you. From here on out, we do it together.
... no, no, no...
From now on, we'll share Marla. We've been spending too much time apart...
Look, I can be selfish, I know that. I'm not blind to my own failings...
No, no, I don't. I thank you, I really do. Thank you, but I don't need you anymore.
You need me.
Why can't I get rid of you? Why can't I just wish you away?
Why... why... why... ?
Fuck that, maybe you're my hallucination.
How'd you do that?! You're a fucking figment of my imagination... you're psychogenic fugue state...
Proceed with remote detonation.
Do we have to do everything ourselves?!
Not exactly according to plan.
Damn it! God-damn it...
Paraffin. Your merry band mixed the nitro with paraffin. I saw it floating in the bomb.
What the fuck -- ?
Fifteen seconds now. Can you see alright? 10... 9... 8....
It's out of our hands. This is it.
Can't you call it off... ?
i... ann....iinn.. ff....nnyin...
This is the beginning. We're at ground zero. Maybe you should say a few words, to mark the occasion.
I think this is about where we came in.
Defuse the bomb?
Defuse the bomb, please.
Ask me nicely.
Defuse the bomb.
Not an option, for the most obvious of reasons. You need to get with the program. Seven minutes. Let's get out of here.
You want out?
Fuck your struggle. I want out.
Bob was a grown man. In any great struggle, there will be casualties. Wouldn't that be implicit in the name? Project "Mayhem."
Bob is dead, Tyler. The police blew a hole in his head. Was that part of your plan?
I've got everything. The bombs. The army. I've got Marla.
I'm serious. That's the wrong one.
Don't pull the green wire. Pull anything but the green wire.
Green? Did you say green?
I'm pulling the green wire.
This is not about martyrdom.
If I'm wrong, we're both dead..
If you know, I know.
I wouldn't be doing that. Unless you know which wires, in what order...
You don't know that. There could still be people inside.
The buildings were evacuated thirty minutes ago. Everything's proceeding exactly as planned.
Since when is Project Mayhem about murder?
What are you doing running through the streets in your underpants? We both use that body.
...your sentences! They're our sentences. Get your mind around that.
...to let this happen!
I'm not going...
I'm going to...
...go through with this? What are you going to do?
I can't let you...
What a ridiculous thing to say.
You... you can't be serious about this.
You could be standing under 37 stories of steel and concrete with a 150 gallons of nitroglycerin strapped to the support... oh, maybe it couldn't be...
Um, well... technically, no.
She's... you... you're fucking her.
What about Marla?
What about Marla?
Night jobs -- while you were sleeping.
You have jobs.
The house is rented in your name.
You took me to the house.
What about them? They're lunatics.
Wrong, wrong -- what about the car crash... the two guys in the backseat?
You never talked to me in front of anyone else.
No! This isn't true. We... we were around other people, together, both of us...
It's okay. We okay... a little codependent, sure, but...
What... what are you saying?
We're going to have to do something about Marla...
This isn't possible...
There! Happy? I asked for one thing from you... one simple promise. Now look what you've done!
But, when you fall asleep, I do things without you...
Oh, yeah. I didn't really know my Dad...
You can see me and hear me, but no one else can...
He's not here! Tyler's not here anymore! He's gone away!
And, sometimes you control it...
The first rule of fight club is -- you don't talk about fight club.
Sometimes I control it, and you imagine yourself watching me...
What are you talking about... ?
Is this really news to you?
People think that you're me, because you and I happen to share the same body.
I don't know! Tell me!
Why do people think anything?
Answer me, Tyler.
Why did you do that?
Why do people think I'm Tyler Durden?
You broke your promise. You talked to her about me.
Why do people think I'm you?
And, we're definitely filling a void in the rural South.
What's this all about, Tyler?
Four in Milwaukee.
If the applicant waits at the door for three days without food, shelter or encouragement, then he can enter and begin training.
If the applicant is young, we tell him he's too young. Old, too old. Fat, too fat.
Wait a minute...
You're too young. Sorry.
... is over.
... is over.
What are you talking about?
Hitting bottom isn't a weekend retreat! It's not a seminar! You have to forget everything you know, everything you think you know -- about life, about friendship, about you and me.
Why do you think I blew up your condo?
Fuck my life. Fuck fight club. Fuck you and fuck Marla. I'm sick of this. How's that?
I want to hear the truth.
I would feel nothing about my life? Is that what you want to hear?!
If you died right now, how would you feel about your life?
I don't know! Nothing!
I don't think that's true.
You're asking questions that don't have answers. You know just as much about Project Mayhem as anybody else.
I'm not asking you to.
You choose your level of involvement. I won't make decisions for you.
What the hell ... ?!
We are the all-singing, all-dancing crap of the world. We are all part of the same compost heap...
What are you doing?!
This does not belong to us. We are not the leaders. We are not special.
What do you want to know about Project Mayhem?
I want to know --
Should I E-mail you? Should I put this on your "action item list?"
What do you want? A statement of purpose... ?
You know what I mean.
Is this a needlepoint club? Is it about you and me?
Fight club was the beginning. Now it's out of the basements and there's a name for it -- Project Mayhem.
Why wasn't I involved from the beginning? You and I started fight club together.
What should I have told you?
Why wasn't I told about "Project Mayhem?"
Something on your mind?
I felt like destroying something beautiful.
Where did you go, Psycho-Boy?
Imagine how he feels.
I feel sick.
I asked you what you studied.
An expired community college student ID card. What did you used to study, Raymond K. Hessel?
What is it?
What are we doing?
I thought you did.
Newcastle? Did you start that one?
Local 8 just started in Penns Grove. And, Bob said he was at fight club in Newcastle last week.
I heard. Local 15, Monday nights.
There's fight club in Delaware City.
Okay, and... and...
Six months advance pay. Six months!
Nothing. Do what you like.
Work. Going to work.
Yeah. Where you headed?
No thanks, I quit.
Fuck damnation. Fuck redemption. We are God's unwanted children, with no special place and no special attention, and so be it.
... Marla ... ?
We don't... ?
We don't need him...
It isn't... ?
Listen to me. You have to consider the possibility that God doesn't like you, he never wanted you. In all probability, He hates you. This is not the worst thing that can happen...
I don't know...
Shut up. Our fathers were our models for God. And, if our fathers bailed, what does that tell us about God?
No, I'm not...
This is the greatest moment of your life and you're off somewhere, missing it.
No, what you're feeling is premature enlightenment.
I... I think I understand. I think I get it...
I was going to my cave to find my power animal.
Stop it. This is your pain -- your burning hand. It's right here. Look at it.
Guided meditation worked for cancer, it could work for this.
Look at your hand.
Tyler's kiss was a bonfire on the back of my hand.
This clear layer in glycerin. We'll mix it back in when we make the soap.
Hard to imagine you in Boy Scouts.
As the fat renders, the tallow floats to the surface. Remember the crap they taught you in Boy Scouts.
A liposuction clinic.
What is this place?
Don't mention me.
You get rid of her.
Shhhhhh! I don't know what to make of this, sir, I really don't...
"The liberator who destroyed my property has re-aligned my paradigm of perception."
You want to finish her off?
That was three times you promised.
I said I promise!
Yes, I promise.
Promise you won't.
If you ever say anything about me or about what happens here in this house, to her or anyone -- I will find out. And you'll never see me again. Promise me.
You've gotta understand something about me. I have a little rule, okay? Don't ever talk to her about me. Ever. I can't stand that kind of shit.
Listen... do me a favor... sit here a minute...
She'd invaded my support groups, now she's invading my home.
She needs an exorcist. This isn't love. This is sport-fucking.
Marla doesn't need a lover. She needs a case worker.
Hey... don't knock librarians.
Oh, and my pace is more librarians.
She is a wild, twisted bitch. Stay away from that one.
You're okay with this?
Good. This chick was up on the table with her legs in the stirrups before the doctor even walked in the room. The things that she said... I've never heard a woman talk like that...
Yeah, I'm sure.
No. Not at all.
I mean, this girl... uh, you're not into her or anything... ?
He was obviously able to handle it.
Abe Lincoln. Big reach. Skinny guys fight till they're burger.
Any historical figure.
Fight club became the reason to cut your hair short and trim your fingernails.
Shatner. William Shatner.
Alive or dead?
If you could fight any celebrity?
A guy came to fight club for the first time, his ass was a wad of cookie dough. After a few weeks, he was carved out of wood.
Soldier of Fortune. Business Week. New Republic.
What are you reading?
"I get cancer, and I kill Joe."
"I am Joe's Lungs." It's written in first person. "Without me, Joe could not take in oxygen to feed his red blood cells." There's a whole series -- "I am Joe's Prostate."
Oh, a new riot control grenade... "...the successful combination of concussive, 3000 foot-candle flash- blasts and simultaneous high-velocity disbursement of...blah, blah, blah..."
The previous occupant had been a bit of a shut-in.
I don't know how Tyler found the house, but he'd been there for half a year.
Where's your car?
A generation of men raised by women. I'm wondering if another woman is the answer we really need.
After I graduated, I called him long distance and asked, "Now what?" He said, "Get a job." When I turned twenty-five, I called him and asked, "Now what?" He said, "I don't know. Get married."
I know that.
He was setting up franchises. My father never went to college, so it was really important that I go.
Oh, yeah. I didn't know my dad. Well, I knew him, till I was six. He went and married another woman, had more kids. Every six years or so he'd do it again -- new city, new family.
My dad. No question.
My boss, probably. Who would you fight?
If you could fight anyone... one on one, whoever you wanted, who would you fight?
This fight, pussy.
Call what off?
We've crossed the threshold. You want to call it off?
But a good strange.
How do you feel?
Like hell. That counted.
Shit. Sorry. That didn't count.
Where do you want it? In the face?
Alright, go crazy. Let 'er rip.
This is crazy.
Why not you? I'm letting you go first. Do it.
I don't want to die without any scars. How much can you really know about yourself if you've never been in a fight? Come on... you're the only person I've ever asked.
No. That's a good thing, isn't it?
I don't know, either. I want to find out. I've never been hit, have you?
I don't know about this.
You get the idea.
Go ahead. Say it.
He farted on meringue; he sneezed on braised endive; and, with creme of mushroom soup, well...
... Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
Don't watch. I can't if you watch.
He was the guerrilla terrorist of the food service industry.
Only a hummingbird could have caught Tyler at work.
A nice, big cock.
No one really knows that they've seen it. But they did.
One-forty-eighth of a second. That's how long it's up there.
In reel three, right after the courageous dog and the snooty cag -- who have celebrity voices -- eat out of a garbage can, there's the flash of Tyler's contribution...
-- Like splicing single frames from adult movies into family films.
It affords him other interesting opportunities.
Why would anyone want this shitty job?
It's called a "changeover." The movie goes on, and nobody in the audience has any idea.
They're called "cigarette burns."
I want you to hit me as hard as you can.
I want you to hit me as hard as you can.
You're welcome. But, I want you to do me one favor.
Yes, you can.
Can I stay at your place?
Is it a problem for you to ask?
Would that be a problem?
Why don't you cut the shit and ask if you can stay at my place?
You called me so you could have a place to stay.
We're on our third pitcher of beer. Just ask me.
I don't follow...
So, you called me up, because you just wanted to have a drink before you... go find a hotel?
God, it's late. I should find a hotel...
Do what you like.
The things you own, they end up owning you.
Well, I have to file a claim...
This time maybe get a widescreen TV. You'll be occupied for weeks.
I don't... think so.
The "now I get to go out and buy the exact same stuff all over again" list. That list.
Oh, yeah, you gotta start making the list.
Insurance'll cover it.
Delivered from bullshit colors like "Cobalt," "Ebony," and "Fuchsia."
Delivered from Martha Stewart.
Delivered from armchairs in obscure green stripe patterns.
Delivered from Swedish furniture.
But maybe, just maybe, you've been delivered.
I mean, you did lose a lot of nice, neat little shit. The trendy paper lamps, the Euro-trash shelving unit, am I right?
...no ...no ...
I don't know, maybe I'm wrong. Maybe it's a terrible tragedy.
There's always that.
Could be worse. A woman could cut off your penis while you're asleep and toss it out the window of a moving car.
And, now it's gone.
I guess so.
This is how we fill up our lives.
You buy furniture. You tell yourself: this is the last sofa I'll ever need. No matter what else happens, I've got the sofa issue handled. Then, the right set of dishes. The right dinette.
Keep it up, then. Keep it right up.
Well, uh... great.
How's that working out for you?
The spork. I get it. You're very clever.
You see, when you travel, everything is small, self-contained--
Why? So you can say, "Oh, that's what you do." -- And be a smug little shit about it?
I mean -- for a living.
What do you want me to do?
What do you do, Tyler?
Oxygen gets you high. In a catastrophic emergency, we're taking giant, panicked breaths...
No, supply oxygen?
You know why they have oxygen masks on planes?
This is how I met --
Two, equal parts gasoline and diet cola. Three, dissolve kitty-litter in gasoline until the mixture is thick.
Somehow, I realize all of this -- the gun, the bombs, the revolution -- is really about Marla Singer.
Look what we've accomplised. Thirty seconds.
We have front row seats for this Theater of Mass Destruction. The Demolitions Committee of Project Mayhem wrapped the foundation columns of ten buildings with blasting gelatin. In two minutes, primary charges will blow base charges, and those buildings will be reduced to smoldering rubble. I know this because Tyler knows this.
That old saying, how you always hurt the one you love, well, it works both way.
It's getting exciting now.
... i... ann....iinn.. ff....nnyin...
One minute. This is the beginning. We're at ground zero. Maybe you should say a few words, to mark the occasion.
Well, sir, you said you might.
Did I tell you I'd call you a fascist dickhead?!
You told me you'd say that, too.
Abort the plan.
You told me you'd say that.
Now wait, there's been a mix-up. Everything's changed...
Don't worry about us, sir. We're solid.
Very good, Sir.
Listen, something is going to happen, something terrible...
Who is this?
His name is Robert Paulson!
Robert Paulson is dead. He's dead, because of you...
No! Wrong! This man's name is Robert Paulson.
But, in Project Mayhem, we have no names.
No, no. This is a man -- this man has a name...
But, this is Project Mayhem.
What he wanted? Look... look at him. Look at him! What does he want? This is a person. This is not a cog in your machine...
It's what he would have wanted, sir.
Let go of me!!
Thank you. Thank you, sir...
Alright, Christ! Fucking let me go!
We need some towels, Lou. We need replacement light bulbs.
Okay! Okay, fuck it! Use the basement! Get off me!
What are you doing?!
You and your friend.
Did you hear what I just said?!
You're welcome to join our club.
Look, stupid fuck, I want everyone outta here now!
Yes, it is.
Ain't that something?
It's free to all.
There is no money.
He don't own this place, I do. How much money's he getting for this?
Irvine? Irvine's at home with a broken collarbone.
We have a deal worked out with Irvine.
Who told you motherfuckers you could use my place?
No, please, no, God, no!
Would you rather be dead?
Too much school.
Stuff. That means you have to get more schooling.
Yeah ... animals and s-s-s ---
What did you want to be, Raymond K. Hessel?
I... I don't know...
"Stuff." Were the mid-terms hard?
Please, God, no...
Your mom and dad will have to call kindly doctor so-and-so to dig up your dental records, because there won't be much left of your face.
Is this a picture of Mom and Dad?
They give basement apartments letters instead of numbers. Raymond, you're going to die.
How'd you know?
Raymond K. Hessel. 1320 SE Benning, apartment A. A small, cramped basement apartment.
I have to save Eugene!
No! It can't be.
I was dead. And came back to life. An EEG machine. Where's Eugene?
What did you see?
Yeah, fuck 'em. No offense.
What do you want me to do?
Yes. I was in a hospital. There was screaming... A nurse was choking me. I couldn't tell what she looked like, but the name tag was right in my face. Kalarjian.
No, it's not here. This one was different. More like the pile up and the van going into the lake.
What did you see? What am I looking for?
I don't think so. Alex's premonitions happened exactly as he saw them no matter how much we tried to change it.
This makes no sense. Isabella was supposed to crash her van into a lake. Could we have altered her destiny when we had her arrested?
And when it was Rory's turn to die, and Thomas was in the way?
Six duds in a row.
What happened when Eugene tried to kill himself out of turn?
Are you crazy? What makes you think you'd survive?
No. If anyone dies from a crash now, it'll be me. But I can't die if Eugene and Isabella are still alive. I'm last on Death's list.
What are you doing? You're going to kill us!
How you doing in there, hero?
What about that?
So let's do it.
So if you give us the pregnant lady's number, we can warn her about the lake and she'll live long enough to have the baby.
Please, what else could it mean?
Then it wasn't just a sign. It was a premonition?
I can practically taste the water in my throat. And something else. The smell of flowers...
You were there?
I was driving a white van. It must've gone out of control because it crashed into a lake and I drowned. It was...horrible.
You have to tell us now.
I hope you're ready for this.
The second one just dies. A 16 year old kid.
How can you say that? What kind of monster are you?
I didn't beat it; I hid from it. If you were smart you'd put a down payment on a burial plot and say goodbye to the dog, because what little life you have left is over as you know it. Don't make new friends, don't fall in love, and don't ever bother trying to save others. That's the worst killer of them all.
That's what Alex used to ask himself right up until...
The songs on the radio. But wait. I don't understand. Why is this even happening to me?
If you have the same power as Alex, you'll be seeing signs soon. When you see anything creepy or ominous, an in-your-face irony kinda thing? Don't ignore it. It usually means the difference between life and death.
That's good. Get all your tears out now, you'll need your eyes. For the signs.
That still doesn't make sense. You said you die in the same order you were originally meant to. But Evan Shaeffer died last in my premonition, not first.
Congratufuckinglations. That makes you last to go. But don't worry, once the others are dead, it'll come back for you. Always does.
Officer Burke pulled me away from the crash that killed my friends.
Exact order? Then I'm next! I was meant to die with my friends, so I'm next!
The survivors of Flight 180 died in the exact order they were originally meant to die in the plane crash. That was Death's original design.
Death's list. The precise order you're going to die in.
Well, if you put them on the list, they're already tits up.
It's not just about me. Someone I saved died last night in a freak accident. What if the others are in danger, too?
Nice work. Maybe if you're real lucky, you'll wind up in here with me. But I doubt you'll survive that long.
I had a premonition about the Route 18 pile up... I saved some people. And now I think Death is after me.
I thought...I thought you might be able to help me.
Kimberly Burroughs, eh? What do you want?
She had the baby?
Don't sweat it. It's over.
A guard grabbed me before I could find Eugene.
If only Alex and I had done that with the others, Alex might still be...
Then the only way to survive is to get to the hospital and protect Eugene and Isabella for as long as we can.
We need to hurry.
Here we go. The vehicle's a delivery van registered to Jorge and Isabella Cruz. And Christ, there's almost a dozen domestic disturbance complaints on these two.
Taken care of.
Make sure all these people will be at the meeting tonight.
Holy shit. He said "only new life can defeat death." If she gives birth to a baby that was never meant to be born, a brand new soul that was never part of Death's Design...
Remember the onramp? There was a pregnant woman in a white delivery van.
He probably already knows we're coming.
Should we knock?
A mortician. He seemed to know a hell of a lot more about death than he ever told us.
That's why Death is working backwards. It's tying up all the loose ends, sealing the rift once and for all This chapter of the screenplay contains scene that do not appear or occur elsewhere in the final movie. In order to maintain the integrity of the screenplay, it has not been edited.
So if you never got off the plane, none of us would be alive in the first place.
Being alive after our time caused an outward ripple - a rift in Death's design.
I'm not sure I understand.
Your entire world view just went out the window. I couldn't expect a religious conversation overnight. We'll get through this. I promise.
Um, Clear? I'm sorry...about before. I...
What, you think Death planned for each of us to die in the pile up weeks ago? You're nuts.
Jury duty? That's randomly selected by social security numbers.
What about you, Kimberly? Did you anyone from Flight-?
Freaked me out so bad I hid in a shopping cart for four hours. 'Course, missed the show...
I had tickets to go, but one day I'm in Paris, trippin' on acid, sippin' lattes an' such, and this dude gets whacked by a falling sign.
What about the rest of you? Kimberly, you were driving to Daytona. Was Route 18 your first choice?
That lucky bastard.
The only reason he was on Route 18 was because he own the lottery and had to collect the winnings.
Blow me. Yellow means go, Kimmy.
Dano, shouldn't we stop and help your mother?
Blow me. Yellow means go, Kimberly.
Dano, shouldn't we stop and help your mother?
Yeah. Who does he think he is? Knight Rider?
A Trans Am. That shit went out with New Kids on the Block.
Yeah, you should have specified.
Calm down, Kimmy. It's not drugs, just weed.
Dano, shouldn't we go back and help your mother?
Evan Shaeffer's dead. Guess he wasn't as lucky as we thought.
Good. Cause we just got some new info and I don't need you getting freaky on me.
You've made your point.
I thought we were finished with this bullshit. This is police work, not the psychic Hot Line.
Look, you weren't there. It was weird. She knew that log truck was gonna cause an accident, she knew. Never mind.
Of course not. That would be irresponsible and unprofessional.
Tell me you didn't start up on that Flight 180 shit again. Did you?
Do you want to deliver this baby?
I've got to stop and help those people.
Please. It's not going to wait.
Take my van!
Damn, they always stick me with the clunker.
Jorge. When I get out of here I'm going to sue his cheating ass off.
Hopefully the district judge can straighten it all out by Monday morning.
What do you mean "grand theft auto?" This is insane.
Does she have a cell phone? A way we can contact her?
Take a guess.
What was the fight about?
We had a fight. Some things got broken, the dog went crazy, she left me. Wouldn't say where she was going.
No. What's this about?
May we come in?
Maybe. What's this about?
Are you Jorge Cruz?
I'm Officer Burke. I'm looking for an Isabella Cruz.
I never mad it. The Greyhound bus I was on splattered some chick all over the road and we had to stop.
Yeah, so what happened?
I got that beat. So like, last May, I was supposed to stay at this cheesy bed and breakfast in Pennsylvania. There was a major gas leak no one knew about and all the guests suffocated during the night.
But why single me out? What am I in the great scheme of things? You'd think I stepped off Flight 180 or something... Fucking weird, man.
Here's what I don't get. For nine months, Death does all this shit to make sure I win these tickets and end up on Route 18 at exactly the right time for the pile up...
Anyway, I guessed it right and won these.
Eighteen. And it's "Hebrew".
Last July I dialed a wrong number and got a radio station by accident. They asked me what number means "good luck" in Jewish.
Just shut the fuck up and maybe you'll live.
This can't be happening. My career's at a peak, I finally met a cute guy, I just bought a new house...
Yeah, I hate to love and leave ya, but I've been over this X-Files shit since the sixth season.
First I'm stuck with Jury Duty, now this nonsense.
Yeah, don't make me cite you for harassment.
For God's sake, leave him alone, Dad.
I know. I can feel it too.
Welcome back. We did it. For real.
That's crazy. You can't give up now. We can still fight this thing.
You can't cheat destiny. I know what I have to do to save us. I have to die.
Then what's the premonition of the lake supposed to mean?
I'm not sure... I don't think Isabella was ever destined to die in the pile- up.
Impossible. She was on the onramp.
I don't...what if I made a mistake?
But it's over. Isabella's baby was the key. You saw her die and everything, right?
I know how it feels to be dead.
Are you okay? You just face planted!
No time. Keep going. I wouldn't know how to explain any of this anyway.
Shouldn't we pull over?
I think a nurse named Kalarjian is going to choke Isabella to death!
I wasn't worried about us.
Don't worry. Nothing can happen to us.
Um, Kimberly? This is a neighborhood. You may wanna slow it down.
He can't breathe damn it. I think his lung's collapsed!
Stop it, don't move him!
You said she was going to drive into a lake. How can she when she's in protective custody?
How do you know?
Guys, let's not panic. Isabella's safe.
Are you thinking what I'm thinking?
Whoa, nine months?
Hey, I'm a police officer, remember?
How are we going to find her? There must be thousands of white vans in this state.
Shit, I don't have her number. She was never interviewed. She took off right after the accident.
It sounds all well and good, but what if we're wrong?
It throws the entire Death list out of whack. And a new list has to be rewritten from scratch. We all start over with a clean slate.
Yeah, I thought he was supposed to be helpful.
New life defeats death? Follow the signs? Where the hell did you find that guy?
Who is this guy, anyway?
This is cheery.
I did. And right now, I don't think she cares.
We have to tell her she's in danger!
Nora's not coming. She refuses to leave her son.
Turn around. The cleaning woman said they're at the dentist's. 14th and Main.
They're next on the list. We have to find them.
I'm not following you --
Pigeons... It's a sign! If Clear's right about the order, then Nora and Tim are going to be attacked by Pigeons!
Clean up? I don't...
I didn't. Until I was dispatched to clean up one of the Flight 180 survivors.
Then you believe all this?? That Death is working off a list?
I know. I've gotten calls all morning from everyone who was on the onramp. We're all meeting at my apartment tonight.
Evan Shaeffer's dead.
I tried calling last night but your father --
...My Premonition was just like his.
You mean Alex Browning.
Billboards about accidents. Kids yelling "pile up" for no reason. It all felt...just wrong. Just like...
The log truck...and everybody I guess. Everyone was driving like a maniac. And somehow I knew something horrible was going to happen, even before it did.
Do you remember what triggered it all?
Like I said, it was like I was there. I remember everything. The sounds of the crashes, the smells, the look on Shaina's face...
Tell me again how it started.
You're not listening to me! You have to do something!
Alright miss, calm down. I just need this lane open. I need you to pull your vehicle onto the shoulder!
THAT's the truck that's going to kill everyone!
There's going to be a pile up. Logs. Bodies everywhere. I saw it happen. It happened.
What's going on here?
For Christ sakes girl, take a breath.
Highway to Hell, Highway to Hell.
Relax, you need to chill the fuck out.
There's going to be a huge accident! Everyone's gonna die, all of us, I saw it!
What is it? What are you?
There's going to be a huge accident! Everyone's gonna die. All of us! I saw it!
What is it? What are you?
How does a nice mature fuck sound?
What's the chance of finding a nice mature guy once we get to Daytona?
I can live with thaaaa --
Get ready to smile, five guys per girl.
This trip better be worth it. What's the guy-girl ratio again?
No, I'm good.
Want me to drive?
Would you take these? And if I die... Could you throw all my drugs out? Paraphernalia, porno, you know... Anything that would break my mom's heart.
I guess so.
And you're gonna die after me, right?
I...I don't know.
When I die. Is it gonna hurt?
Can I ask you a question?
I don't know what's weirder, the dialing a wrong number part or that Death would set you up nine months in advance.
The best way to get to Yankee Stadium is Route 18.
Hey, don't be knockin' the Chevette.
More than that. All the songs on the radio were about car crashes. Some kid's banging toy cars together. She was dialing her cell phone with her headset on. His car was leaking oil all over the road.
I don't know what I'd do if I lost you.
I used to have those feelings, too. But that's when I'd think of Mom. Her strength...and courage. And I'd pray that maybe I'd grow up to be as brave as she was. And the bad thoughts would go away.
There were so many times I didn't think I could last another day. I can't even tell you some of the things I thought about.
I love you too, Dad. Goodnight.
I'm sorry. I'm just so happy that you're safe.
That it's not over yet.
I know it's crazy, but I'm really scared for the others. I've got this terrible feeling.
I will, Dad. Bye, luv you.
I mean it. Take care of it.
You got it, Dad. I'll call you if I have a problem.
Your car's leaking either transmission or brake fluid. I want you to have it checked ASAP at a gas station.
Hey, Dad. What's up?
Kimberly? It's Dad.
I know, Dad.
Your mother would have been so proud of the way you've handled yourself through all of this...
I know, honey. I just --
I know this is the first time we've been apart since. But everything's gonna be okay.
Fix-A-flat? Road flares? Sunblock? Mace?
Relax, Dad. It's Daytona, not Mongolia.
You have everything, Kimberly? Credit card, cell phone, AAA card?
Thanks, Dad. I'll call you.
Nice try, kiddo.
You think the tooth fairy's gonna come tonight? I'm thinkin' like fifteen bucks.
You think... You think those guys were b.s.-ing us today or what?
Jeez, Mom, stop trippin'.
You're all certifiable, you know that? I can't believe I've been listening to this crap. Come on, Tim, let's go outside.
Who am I, David Blane?
What on Earth are they doing?
I know, we'll be there soon.
Damn, it really hurts, Mom.
When I do this.. it'll have skipped you... and it'll all be over.
No! No! Don't!
You know what to do.
That's why It skipped Carter and went to the next one in the path of the explosion; Billy.
Police are coming.
Get out! Get out of the car!
Get out! Get out of the car! Get out of the fuckin' car!
Don't do it! Don't do it!
Carter, get out!
Easy, Billy, just open it.
Can't you open the door?!
Let us out!
Stop the car!
They blame me for everything. Her, Tod, the plane crash...
Billy told the F.B.I. he saw you runnin' away from her house.
We're takin' you to a cabin in the woods, it's only a couple miles from my house. Keep off the highways, they'll be lookin' for us.
I can't go home. After Lewton's, they'll be after me.
Nothing is... anymore.
No.. I mean, I don't have anything on me. This won't be safe.
Those guys are probably fifteen minutes away.
Most kids never have it happen.
Most kids do, I guess.
Alex, on the plane... you must have experienced... some kind of hyper awareness. But here... you're suggesting Tod's death... and maybe our own... will happen because of... an active Presence.
No, but it might as well be the same thing. This was a message... from someone, or something... hinting... at the design.
I don't understand... did you see Tod die? Did it happen again, like on the plane?
That's total bullshit. You can find death omens anywhere you want to.
I'm not just layin' down a bunch of math here, with this. I'm talking about indications... omens... that day, that we were meant to die. That, if, we have been aware of... would have saved everyone on the plane.
Wait. I thought you meant the time of your birth. Four/Twenty-five, as in, month and day... that's a reach.
Right. April 25th.
Remember the departure time?
Remember the gate number?
How many died on Flight 180? From our group?
As in flannels and plaids?
He said Death has a design. Even before he said that I had been seeing patterns.
Ohmygod! OHMYGOD! OHMYGOD! He's not dead?
Ahhh! fuck! You fucking asshole. You think this is funny, you fucking dick? Tod, if you're not dead I'm gonna fucking kill you!
That's him, but... he's not here.
I think. But why'd they make him up like... Michael Jackson?
Doin' somethin' I'm not supposed to.
Then, let's go see him!
I don't know. I wish I could just see him... one more time, then, maybe... I would know.
Is that something you're "feeling?"
What if Tod... is just the first... of us?
I've never dealt with death before. I wasn't alive when my grandparents died. I wish I could know. I mean, all this... could just be in our heads. Now it feels like it's everywhere.
That's why I was there last night.
Like you, the sculpture doesn't even know what, or why, it is. Reluctant to take form. And, yet, creating an absolute but incomprehensible attraction.
I'm... really sorry.
Not a likeness. It's how you make me feel, Alex.
It is. But that didn't stop me. Shouldn't stop you.
You went there? I've wanted to go there, but I thought it was off limits.
Yeah, but everything's always in transition. If you focus, even now, one week into summer... you can feel Autumn coming. Almost like bein' able... to see the future.
It's only the end of June.
He's not a witch.
How would I know? You think I'm some sort of...
Of course not! Gods aren't afraid to die! Gods don't die! We do!
"Intervention?" What are you, God now?!
My intervention in the death of 180 survivors will cheat the design.
But I saved him. I intervened. Just like the plane. That's the design.
You're the fuckin' devil.
You should have been next. After Lewton, you should've been next. That's the only pattern. You should be dead.
What's your fuckin' worry? If it's not your time...? I could get nailed runnin' this red light and you all wouldn't get shit! Only me, right?
It doesn't matter who's next... we're all on the same list.
You get off havin' control over me. Let me choose how to deal with it.
Is knowing going to make it easier? It makes it harder.
Why do you think I was hiding?
Alright, Browning, you fuckin' warlock... did you know about Ms. Lewton, or what?
Look, there's something you should all know.
We're losing our favorite teacher.
All I owe is these people. To live my life to the fullest.
Hope you don't think, Browning, that because my name ain't on this wall... that I owe you anything.
I wish you were on the plane!
You're payin' for my trip, Browning!
Fuck you! I'll remove myself!
I'll remove him.
That's a plan.
Me, too. But my dad doesn't understand. When he's better; you and me, road trip to the City. Catch the Yanks.
Been on many planes that blew up, have you?
And then the cabin banged and the left side exploded. The the whole plane... blew up. It was so real. Exactly how everything goes.
Because of you, I gotta sit here and watch fuckin' "Stepmom."
C'mon, man, like you really thought you were gonna tittie fuck 'em over Greenland, or something?
Dude, get wisdom. We're about to board a seven hour flight. The toilets in coach are barely ventilated closets. What if your body wants that airplane food out of your system and you have to go torque a wicked cable and then right after you walks in Christa or Blake? You want them to associate with you with that reflexive gag and the watery sting in their eyes?
Man, that is one George Michael notch from being gay.
No... I can't. As long as I'm in here, it's outta my control.
Alex... can you promise me that no one else will die?
Oh, you've noticed it, too?
Yes... see, there's this... pattern... that's occuring.
I believe that... Ms. Lewton's next.
No. I saw it. I saw it!
Did you take any sedatives before boarding, or on the plane. Sleeping pills?
I got this... feeling... a weird feeling... I can't explain it...
No harm. No foul.
I'm sorry we broke in.
You may not realize it, but we're all just a mouse that a cat has by its tail. Every single move we make, from the mundane to the monumental... the red light we stop at, or run; the people we have sex with, or won't with us; the airplane we ride, or walk out of... is all a part of Death's sadistic design leading to the grave.
You saying Tod did kill himself?
... there are no accidents. No coincidencess. No mishaps. And no... escapes.
His father's pretty fucked up with denial. Maybe he couldn't deal with the thought of an other accident... taking another son.
Why would he pull at the wire if he were committing suicide?
I know who you are.
I'm... a friend of his. His best friend. See, his father...
No one's that strong.
Whatta' you whinin' about? He said I'm next.
Shoulda' felt up Tammy in the pool, that time...
Me, right? That's why you're not saying.
Please tell me I'm gonna get to see the Jets win the Super Bowl.
'Cause if you say another word, I'm gonna fuckn' kill ya!
Hey, man, why'd you say that?!
Billy! I'm gettin' a vision! You're the next one...
And don't pass on the right.
WE DON'T NEED THIS NOW!
SHUT UP, BILLY!
I'm not afraid! I DECIDE WHEN IT'S TIME! I control my life! I control my death!
I know what you're doing! It's alright to be scared, Carter. You don't have to prove to us how big your balls are. Not now.
That's what I'm doin'!
Get control of yourself!
Not with us in the fuckin' car!
May as well go out under my own free will, right?
Knock it off!
You have a responsibility to tell me.
He didn't say nothin'. Just drive.
They're watching me, see if I go to Alex.
So, why'd you want us to meet you here? Now?
Terry's name should be on this wall.
What are you doing?
There's the Mekong.
... and there's this guy with a black helmet and cape, right, and he's got this sword... except it's not a sword, it's light...
Hell. This is just like fucking Star Wars, man!
Oh, yeah. Listen, how long do they keep you in this disease hole?
Maybe because you're shot in the leg.
Really? How come he didn't take me?
Your buddy made it out last night. The place went apeshit.
What just happened?
Put it in the guard's barracks. Man they got pissed. They beat the crap out of me, but... it's kind of a tradition. You oughta see 'em run around.
Yeah. It's not hard once you get the hang of it. In the wrist. Anyway, I did what I always do when I get one...
You mean the snake?
What kind of raggedy-ass rescue you call this?
I gotta tell you, it's just luck you guys came when you did. They move us around a lot... We only been at that camp a week. Got a smoke?
That's right, buddy.
Sorry, I mean... I talk to people all the time... I know a lot of them aren't there. But this is real, isn't it? You're taking me home now?
You guys are real... aren't you?
How much we got left in that minigun?
You're gonna love it.
It's a Soviet MIL MI-24. Probably has 12.7mm nose cannon, heat-seeking rockets and wire guided missiles, plus...
Brewer! You know what that thing's packing?
Can you handle the door gun?
Hold your pantyhose. Here, gimme a hand.
Gawd, you look awful.
What... whattaya do?
Are they going to torture us?
Ain't you coming with us, sweet thing?
You better take off.
You take pictures and split. I'm going in.
It's orders! You remember... when they tell you to do something and then you do it. John Wayne is dead, man.
I suppose you have...
You never been in one of those things.
What? Are you crazy? We're supposed to take pictures and split. You're gonna blow the whole program.
I'm getting him out.
Nothing we can do, man.
That guy's not going to make it.
Bastards. Let's get some shots.
Torture cage. Can't stand... can't sit... for days. Sometimes weeks.
Alright. Home run.
Let me see.
Can't tell. Pretty tall. He's real scrunched up in that thing.
It's a guy in a cage.
Guard barracks. Take some shots.
Snoring. Five, six guys. Mumbling... Vietnamese. Somebody talking in his sleep. A toilet flushing.
I need a vacation.
How you doing, Brewer?
Pirates? No kidding?
Sometimes they do. They're river pirates. Opium runners.
These guys look like they'd sell their mothers.
Yeah. Dinky-dau, that's me. Hey, Co. You wanna meet Jake the one- eyed snake?
She likes you. Says you're dinky- dau.
What's she saying?
Brewer. Does a jet make noise?
How come we didn't just drop near the camp... save this hassle?
We'll check it out.
Who cares? Let's just do it and get out. Go have a Jacuzzi and get laid in Bangkok. Know what I mean?
Why would they send us to a deserted camp?
Fermented fish sauce.
What's this stuff on the rice?
I had it cupped.
You fucking crazy? I need it to burn these things off.
Buddhist monastery. Fifteenth century.
This place is a trip.
There are no worse places.
I've seen worse places.
That's a real good reason to wind up in 'Nam.
I was in the brig. They gave me a deal. I blew up this Colonel's golf cart with an M-19. He wasn't in it or anything... it was the symbolic value. Seemed like a good idea at the time.
You wanna know why I stood up for this show?
And a beat-to-shit AK? Every twelve-year-old in Nam's got one of those.
There's a compass in the handle.
That's it? Some C-4, a map and a knife?
Where's your stuff?
Cocktail party. Uh huh, right. Let's saddle up.
AC-System 'Big-Ear' telescopic mike with built-in audio processor. Can pull a whisper out of a loud cocktail party at 50 meters.
This is state-of-the-art firepower.
Batteries not included.
Modified M-16 A2 and over-under M-79 grenade launcher, with Sionics sound suppressor, Tracor starlight scope and LAC/R-100 Laser sighting system.
What do you call that?
Keep it down, man. I got problems.
Home on my strobe.
You read me, Brewer?
You break your leg, I'll have to shoot you.
Yeah. Why not?
We're leaving tonight, not in a week.
Show me in case you get zapped as soon as we land.
That's what I'm here for.
Show me how it operates.
No radio source. Nothing for the bad guys to triangulate on.
Yeah. Second set. Let's go.
Gettin' old, huh?
... then proceed downriver to extraction at point Echo Delta. Doyle takes us out by helicopter, we all live happily ever after and that's the last time, Rambo! I swear to Christ.
... to target at Ban Kia Na. We probe the site...
Co Phuong Bao. The guide takes us twelve klicks upriver to target at Ban... at Ban... Bo Peep. Shit!
Insertion. Call in to base camp by TRANSAT. Proceed to point Tango November for rendezvous with our ground contact. Indigenous agent. Co Phuong Bao. We've been over this three times.
Ever do this from a jet?
Clown? Now back up there, buddy...
This clown almost blew mission security on the street. I'm not jumping with him.
It doesn't hurt. Why doesn't it hurt?
John. My name is John.
Minigun. Come on. Let's move. He's coming in on our open side.
What was that?
Why you don't feel love? Not allowed? Dead inside, maybe? You make yourself dead already so they can't kill you? In-vulnerabo? Bullshit!
Yes you can.
I couldn't get you in.
I know. I go with you.
How you going to get there? You can't trust the spooks to pull you out. They'll use you up and throw you away.
Go United States. See Nguyen. Maybe teach economics. Buy Cadillac. Watch "Dynasty."
Yeah. Got some business there. What are you gonna do?
You try get across Laos? Get to Thailand?
In-vul-nerabo. But you get ass kicked without me.
You think you are... .
Carefully. Don't want to get shot by you. Bad karma. Anyway, you need me.
And how'd you sneak up like that?
Took bus, most of way. I knew you would come here.
Christ. How'd you get here?
Rambo. NVA coming. Pig dog Kinh say meet them here. Whole garrison from Con Cuong is out.
They heard about escaped prisoner on radio. Make deal. More than we pay.
Why'd they want us?
Yes. But I lose many merits in next life. Very bad.
Are you okay?
Nguyen is good boy.
It's nice there. He's probably digging every minute. Got a surfboard. Breaking girls' hearts.
Huntington Beach, California.
Where's Nguyen now? What city?
Where's his father?
Nguyen. He twelve now. Not see him for eight years.
Oh. They talk to me at university before fall of Saigon. Make deal.
How did you get started working for the spooks?
I thought he was with you.
Where did you find this clown?
I go up to this camp two months ago. Nobody there. Empty for years.
I have arranged transportation. We meet soon. But I think you to be disappointed.
How do we get upriver?
Sure. I only sound like forty-year- old in your language.
You really got a Masters Degree?
It means "virgin." My mother was comedian.
I'm Rambo. This is Brewer. Her name is Co.
Well, if there weren't POWs before, there are now.
You pathetic scum.
That's an order.
Sorry, Sir. Can't do it.
Stay on your heading, Captain.
Let's get that tent down!
Alternate LZ Zulu Sierra at 0500. It says "May have heat. Don't be late. All our love."
All this is for us?
I was crossed-trained in gunships.
I didn't know you were a stick man, Rambo.
Don't look so disappointed. It should be hairy enough... even for you.
We just take pictures?
Negative. Absolutely not. The phase two assault team will get them out.
We don't try to pull out any of our guys if we find them?
This operation is in two phases. Recon and rescue. You are phase one. Your two-man team will probe the site, confirm the presence of American POWs, if any, make photographic and tactical observations, then proceed to the extraction point without engaging the enemy.
What's the plan?
Memo E-7 on top will cover the details. An abandoned Vietnamese Army base in the North-central highlands may have a compound used as an internment camp. As you can see the intelligence is soft. These LANDSAT photos show huts... barracks. It could be anything.
I'm not jumping blind.
We like you. At least the computer at Langley likes you. Pulled your file because of various factors. Service record. Area familiarity.
Classic special forces op... hit fast... in and out. Two men. Two days.
What's the job?
I'm authorized to get you out of here. I thought that's what you wanted.
I don't work with spooks. Not after that op in Cambodia.
He... took it.
... and then he, uh... took the other one.
Um... actually, no. It looks like he shot down one of their gunships...
Sir, there's something else... a TRANSAT relay. Just came through.
Half their air force is our stuff. Captured.
He's giving them a run for their money. Says here they've got two Hueys from Danang. I didn't know those dinks had Hueys.
It's not over. You made one mistake.
You're out of your depth, Trautman. Way out. I'm acting correctly here. Not you. Not your gung-ho jungle ace. It's over. Walk away.
Of course not. You can't get approval to rescue a kitten from a tree after Tehran.
So there never was a Phase Two rescue team?
That's a crock. We don't say that. Do you have any idea the shitstorm if he'd gotten back with that guy? If it went public? The White House would have to act through channels. We're talking ransom. Four billion bucks in war reparations to Vietnam to get the others back. That's billion, Colonel. With a "B". For a few guys that've had their brains in a blender for ten years? A pain in the ass to everybody? No way. There's no way.
"Terminate with extreme prejudice."
It was clean. Very clean... Rambo was a decorated Vietnam vet, a former POW himself... if he came out and said "No POWs" the sub-committee would buy it. He gets himself caught he's a private citizen, a whacko, acting on his own. If he gets proof, it gets lost somewhere between here and D.C. Airtight. But no... Rambo's gotta be a hero. Thinks he's starring in his own war movie or something. He put me in a corner. No choice.
Rambo and Brewer were selected as write-offs.
Word came down... they wanted an answer. And they knew the answer they wanted: no POWs. But it had to look good. Best effort. The whole dog-and-pony show.
This mission was a scam from the word go?
Look, it was a screw-up, alright? They weren't supposed to find anything. We thought that camp was empty.
Don't dance me, Kirkhill. You'll be walking funny.
You think I'm some whacko? I like to hurt people? I'm doing a job here. If I knew what's right or wrong I'd be a goddamned priest, right? So I follow directives... I do what I'm told. It's simple. If your boy had done what he was told, there wouldn't be a problem.
But you're right... some people do get sacrificed. Now tell me why you pulled the plug.
Not my people.
Look, Colonel... we're all adults here. This is a war. A very quiet, very intense war. People get sacrificed.
Take your time.
That's a pretty hairy ride. Full Colonels are supposed to be above that sort of thing.
It's not necessary.
Listen, Kirkhill. I'm a bit of a fifth wheel in your setup here... I thought I'd go out with the extraction team tonight. Unless you have an objection.
The League of Families leans on Congress. Then they lean on us. Like we don't have enough to worry about in a dozen dirtwater countries. Damnit!
Black. No sugar.
POWs? I don't know. But either way it'll get that subcommittee off our necks. Cream?
You think they'll find any?
Couple hours. Let me buy you a coffee.
How long before you're fully on line?
About 22 hours on site.
How long have you been setting up?
De Fravio. Dave De Fravio. Lieutenant... Air Force.
What's your name?
I could a couple of days ago. Gonna be... stiff.
Can you walk?
Man, you are one scary-looking motherfucker!
American. Come to get you out.
You got it, sir.
Keep it clean, Rambo, or I'll nail your hide to the shed.
Let's do it.
I say we tape him to a chair.
Listen up. You two are married as of now. Get used to it.
This just occurred to somebody, now?
We left some people behind there, John... POWs.
You just picked that wrong war to be a hero in.
I just wanted... I don't know... after all that... I just wanted one person, one person, to come up to me and say "you did good, John." And mean it. That's all. After all that.
What did you want?
Five. I never wanted that stuff.
Plus, what else? Two Silver Stars, four Bronze Stars, two Soldier's Medals, four Vietnamese Crosses of Gallantry and... uh, a handful of Purple Hearts.
Yeah. Big time.
Congressional Medal of Honor.
Those men are all dead.
Hardcore outfit. The best I ever trained.
That's it. My life.
This your stuff?
Hard to believe. You shoot up one little town in Oregon with a fifty caliber machine gun... one little dogpatch town... and everybody figures your wrapper's broken. No sense of humor. What did you expect? An engraved plague from the chamber of commerce?
There were treating me like a headcase.
That depends on you. Christ, look at you. I give you this easy duty until I can get you an assignment... all you have to do is eat ice cream and watch soap operas... and you have to make it Rambo's last stand.
Am I out of here?
Seems like I'm always pulling you out of some goddamn toilet or other, doesn't it?
I could take it or leave it.
I hear you're not enjoying it here.
Mind if I sit down?
Hey? What did I tell you? Why don't you come? It's just dinner. You'll have something to tell your mother next time she calls.
No really..I can't.
The nails!! Watch the nails!!... Listen, you still have to eat.
Oh, no..I have to get home...
You know, let me tell you something! I'm not that kind of person. I don't do people favors. If I talk to you it's because I want to. So we're not all ...uh...Jerri Hall...Big deal... What a boring world if we were. You do the best you can with what you got. You're not so so invisible, ya know... You want make an impression? Try this; you can be a real bitch.
I'm paying you.
That's not true...You gotta ease up... Conversations have a life of their own. You gotta just go with it...We're having a lovely conversation.
I don't feel like I make any impression on people... At office parties I spend my time re-arranging the hors d'oeuvres as people eat them, so the platters will always look full. I don't start conversations because I have no idea how to end them...I think I'm just meant to live in the background of things.
I don't understand you. What is the problem?
I think some people are meant to be alone. Maybe I was a man in a former life and I used women for pleasure so now I'm paying for it - which would be fine, if I could just remember some of the pleasure parts...
I can't believe you lived with her for that long. If I had to live with my mother, I'd stab myself six times.
...My mother calls every week. Like a recurring nightmare. "So, have you met anyone?"..."No mom".. "So what's going to happen?"... "I don't know Mom"... I only thank God I moved out.
It's a disgusting process. You haven't missed anything.
I never really...went through a... dating period.
Tell me about it. I've been dating longer than I've been driving. I can't believe that.
Meeting ... people.
I mean, it's not easy in this day and age.
Well, there's nobody special!
Well, don't say it like that. It's not so...ya know, crazy an idea. You are a healthy woman... You hold a steady job. Ya not crossed eyed or anything...
Do I look like I have someone special?
...SO...anybody special in your life?
It's an awful thing, let me tell you. My Aunt used to say, "divorce is the sister-in-law of death".
My parents were divorced.
You threw him out?
...So he says to me, "you'll never find another man like me"...I said, "please, men like you have one hand on their dicks and the other hand on their mother's leg... I said, there's the door - take a trip.
That all depends on you. ...Sure you don't want a drink?
Will it hurt?
No, thank you.
Can I get you anything...coffee... tea...a little tequilla?
I've never been in an apartment above a store. You always pass them on the street but you never think anyone really lives in them.
Ah... I do them myself. I used to work in a beauty parlor.
I like your nails. Where did you get them done?
Well, I guess I'll come back then.
Yes! They'll be in soon.
Well did you or didn't you?
You know, I think I... ordered some just the other day.
But now it's free, right?
This will last you one year after which you have the option to renew if... you like at a membership discount.
Huh...the restaurant's just around the corner here...
Yep! Right on it!
<u>What are you, out of your mind</u>!
Holdin' my penis... What a lovely way of sayin' how Much ya like me...
Why this is outrageous!...
Most men are.
I'm shocked. With a child bearing body like yours... ... why a man would have to be out of his mind!
<u>You're surprised</u>!... But I guess I just never met the right guy. Whatta gonna do?
Jack, he's starting a conversation...
This food's delicious. You're a wonderful cook. And you have a lovely home.
I mean, I've gone out with bums, but they were gorgeous. It's the only reason to go out with a bum.
Got any more bread crust?
Getting your nails done is one thing but going to dinner with a bunch of strangers and <u>him</u>... She didn't even look at him.
Huh-huh....You son of a bitch!
I think.. I...I realized...I love you.
Terrific. Going on alot of dates ... seeing lots of men... lots of dates..
How have you been?
Well! What do you want me to do - applaud?
Then what do you want to stay with me for?
Oh yeah? What did I get? What did I get I couldn't've gotten from somebody with no name any night of the week? You think your company is such a treat? Your moods, your... "pain", your problems... You think you're entertaining?
<u>Listen</u>! We both got something out of it, all right!
What have you been doing here! <u>Huh</u>! <u>I wanna know</u>! <u>What have you been</u> <u>doing here</u>?!
All right... I'll pack my stuff tonight.
Bullshit! If you're going to hurt me, you hurt me now -- not some long... drawn out hurt that takes weeks of my life because you don't have the balls!
I didn't know. I just said all I want is some time.
You can't even give me that?! What were you gonna do, Jack?... Just gonna organize your life... ... walk out that door, move in by yourself and what -- drop the news when you find somebody else? What were you planning to do, Jack?
No. So what time do you need? I love you -- you love me -- you want to get your career going, great! I'd like to be a part of it -- I think I deserve that! So what do you need to figure out alone!?
First of all, let me tell you something -- you don't know shit. Second of all, as far as <u>we</u> go, what time do you need? What have we been doing here, except <u>time</u>? Have I ever... ever pressured you!?
... I'd like to focus on my career - - now than I can, now that everything's all right... Parry's taken care of... and... Like I said, I feel like I know a lot more now and I don't...
Right now, I'm just not sure about... making such definite plans.
Slowed things down? Where have I been? Have we been going fast!?
... Listen, so much has happened and I think it would be a good thing for both of us if we slowed things down a little.
No... it's just...
You want to talk? Come on, Jack... Did I cross the line by mentioning the future or what?
No, I... I think we should talk about this.
"I'm an incredible woman?" What is this, a death sentence?
No, it's not... Come here...
... What?... You don't want to commute?
... I would love to start looking at least. You know, maybe a two bedroom or even, maybe the top floor of a house -- like in Brooklyn or Staten Island...
Ugh, these tapes are a mess. I don't know where to begin...
Ya know, I'm thinkin' -- with another income coming in, I would love to get a bigger place.
It's so great to see you like this, honey... I can't tell you.
<u>You</u> made coffee?... You're going back to work <u>and</u> you made coffee?... I love this!
I've got to put these tapes in some kind of order... and... Oh, I should get my sports jacket cleaned... ... There's coffee if you want...
<u>Whoah</u>! Oh, honey, that's terrific!
He says if I want to get back to work, no problem. He wants me to come in and talk and... and... <u>that's</u> <u>it</u>!
You're kidding! What did he say?
My agent. I called my agent.
So what's going on? Who's Lou again?
You were great. Thanks alot.
Well...I think you should feel very proud. You did a real nice thing for somebody else. I'm very proud.
Nothing it's just...I begining to understand you.
Who's knows. My Aunt Marge used to say, "some matches are made in heaven, some are made in hell and some are made in hardware stores".
You know, I can't believe I did it. You think it'll work out?
I think they're made for each other. And it scares me.
What do you think?
Well..everything's closed up. We thought we'd get some dinner. Say!....Anybody up for Chinese? Have you eaten? Would you like to come along?
What are you two up to?
Thank you very much.
Well talk back. He won't bite you.
He just needs some clothes?
I don't know... He's a little disgusting... Although some women go for that.
And this is our other..uh...co-worker.. Parry..uh...Parry....
I thought... if... if I can help him in some way... you know?... get him this girl he loves... Then... maybe.... things'll start changing for me... My luck, ya know... Maybe... Forget it... It's a stupid idea.
Well, what the hell does that mean?
See, I told you!
What does that mean?
All right... Sorry... I feel indebted to him.
Don't treat me like I'm stupid. It pisses me off.
I... You're not going to understand this.
What? The curse'll be lifted? <u>Will</u> <u>you please</u>!
Lydia is the girl Parry likes... And I thought, if I could get them together I...
And who's Lydia?
He's not a moron.
I was not with a woman last night. I was out with Parry.
...<u>Forget it</u>... <u>Goodbye</u>!
... I don't get a friggin' phone call. You stroll in here at noon. I got... two people out sick. Ya think I need this? I Do Not Need This!
What... No... Lydia... I want to speak to... her name is Lydia... I...uh...
You're calling <u>Lydia</u> in <u>my</u> office. You must think I'm some dope. You fuckin' bastard... You... ... stay out all night long...
I don't know her last name... I'll be off in a second.
Lydia?! Lydia who!?
Hello, I'd like to speak to Lydia?
Can I have my desk please.
I wish there was some way I could... just... pay the fine and go home.
You didn't kill anybody. Stop.
I get this feeling like I'm... a magnet but I attract shit. Out of all the people in this city, why did I meet a man who's wife I killed?
Oh stop. Things will change. My Aunt Mary always said, there's a remedy for everything in this world except death and having no class.
I tell you something, Anne. I really feel like I'm cursed.
Oh, I got a pimple... This stuff is supposed to blend with my skin color... Like it really works, ya know...
... You have a little... uh... something on your face...
Oh sure... Gotta believe in God. But I don't think God made man in his own image. No. 'Cause most of... the bullshit that happens, is because of men. No, I think man was made out of the devil's image and women were created out of God -- because women can have babies which is sorta like creating, and which also explains why women are attracted to men, because, lets face it, the devil is a helluva lot more interesting -- I slept with a few saints and let me tell you... <u>Booooorring</u>!!!... And so the whole point of life, I think, is for men and women to get married so the devil and God can live together and, ya know -- work it out... ... Not that we have to get married.
You still believe in God?
Oh, I used to be such a Catholic.
Okay. ... I love you...
I'm not seeing anyone else. I really was attacked.
Please... before you go on... let me tawk... okay... We've had a wonderful time together... When we first met, you said this wasn't serious and I shouldn't get serious and then you moved in and we haven't been serious. And I just wanna say that I have no regrets. None. And don't wanna have any now so I want ya to be up front with me... I want the truth. If you're seein' somebody else, let me know... You don't have to pour gasoline on yourself and light a match just to break up with me. Just tell me the truth.
I... I stayed at a friend's. Listen, I --
... So... where did you sleep last night?
You're all right... you sure...
No, I'm fine... really...
You were attacked. My God. Should I call a doctor! Did you call the police...
<u>Oh my God</u>... <u>What did they do</u>! <u>My</u> <u>God</u>!!!
Two kids tried to set me on fire.
I was attacked.
I can't tell you how distraught I was. All night long. What the hell happened?
I smell gas... Do you smell gas...
Yeah, well... suicidal paranoiacs say funny things sometimes.
It happens to be a beautiful love story. Ya know, you used to like that about me. You used to say you liked that I didn't make you think so much. That we could be together and not think...
Because it makes me feel good to see how not funny it is and how America doesn't know the first thing about funny which makes it easier not being a famous funny TV celebrity because that would just mean that I'm not really talented.
Then why the hell do we watch all the time?
It's not funny. It's... sophomoric and mindless... and dumb.
Well, it's funny! Whatta want from me?
Why don't you go upstairs... take the day off. All right?...I'll cook tonight.
Anne, they're MY moods. If you want to understand moods, have one of your own!
Are you in a mood today baby? Is this one of those days when you're in ...whadda call it... an emotional abyss? Talk to me, cause I don't understand these moods.
You'd have the option to care for him at home but my advice is it wouldn't be the best thing for him. He needs hospital care. I just thought you could sign the release forms, but the city can do that. I wouldn't feel responsible in any way. There's really nothing you can do. I'm sorry.
What if I was a relative?
Well, it's not unusual in his case... Sometimes victims of tragedies are subject to the brain's replay system. The brain never loses anything - it just stores it up and waits. A person could actually re-experience the full effect of a tragedy, long after the event took place. Are you relatives? Well, it doesn't matter. We'll take care of it. He'll have to be sent back to the same institution..
But..How could that happen?
I'm afraid not ... Then again, I'm not sure. The beating's bad but it's not the problem... It seems he's.. re-experiencing the catatonia... So, like before, he could snap out it in an hour or in thirteen months or thirteen years... ....I don't know. There's no way to tell.
Yeah so? The guy's beat up - he...he probably has a concussion or something, right? He'll snap out of it?
He can't hear you. Hi...I'm Dr. Weintraub.... I was on duty when they brought him in...I've been going over his record... He was brought in once before I understand... ..."catatonic stupor"...condition rendered him non-verbal for a period of -...
She <u>likes</u> me. She said for me to call!
She gave you the old brusheroo, kiddo... Believe me -- this tart will never make it to your desert plate...
No, Jack, no, it's not... She likes me.
Yeah, Edwin, <u>sure</u>... and <u>Pinnochio</u> is a true story... <u>Edwin! Wake up!</u> This is a fairytale...
I think she likes me... she gave me her number, but she must work a lot cause when I call she's never home... But I think we'll go out this weekend... I've...
Yeah, but does she swallow, Edwin?
Okay... I know but... I met this beautiful girl...
Yeah, I know the place. It's one of those chic <u>yuppie</u> gathering holes.
I... I... went to this bar... this very, ya know -- hard-to-get-in place... called Babbitt's...
So, Edwin, baby, this is Sunrise Confession time... what have you got for us?
He's not here.
I'm... just looking for Parry...
Can I help you?
He and his wife was were at some bar ..and some nut came in with a shotgun and blew the place apart. She was a beautiful girl...She never knew what hit her.
Yeah, well... I let him stay there. What else could I do after such a tragedy?
No... He is supposed to live there?
You a friend of Parry's?
<u>I tell him no visitors</u>!!!
Uh... basement I think...
Where you comin' from?!
I'm a man with a mission, Jack.
Remember. One chorus and out.
Oh please!...I was born a Catholic in Brooklyn... I've been to hell and back.... I'll be fine... ....Thanks...You're a gem.
Um...I've got to run. I've bee doing this all day. Are you going to be all right?
Well,... I'm a singer by trade... Summer stock...nightclub revues... that kind of thing...It used to be what I absolutely lived for...God...I can do GYPSY backwards - every part- but, one night...in the middle of singing "Funny..... - it suddenly hit me... ...what does all of this really mean? That, and the fact that all my friends are dead...God, I sound like a veteran. Dad would be so proud.
Can you tell me something? Did you lose your mind all of a sudden or was it a slow gradual process?
Venice...Like Katherine Hepburn in SUMMERTIME. . ....Why can't I be Katherine Hepburn...
Come on...maybe we can...where do you want to go?
No...no...we can't...we can't..
Where? Maybe we can.
A real nice place I know... Ah...can't get there! Not tonight.
Uh...Where...where do you want to go?
I wanna go...Just let me go...
Leave me alone...I wanna go...
It was a crime.
Isn't that awful? Poor Brenda Frazier. Poor Little Gloria. They ruined them! THEY ATE THEM ALIVE!
NO! I want a debutante on a horse to step on me. Leave me alone!!
Come on now...You can't sit here.
NO...I WANNA GO! I WANNA GO NOW!
It's O.K...It's O.K...Lets me help you up.
Good. You believe this drunk?
Yes... I... I agree...
People spend a lot of hard earned money for this neighborhood. It's not fair... looking out their windows to see your ass asleep on the streets...
I... I was just leaving.
You shouldn't hang around this neighborhood.
I used to think my biography would be JACK LUCAS - THE FACE BEHIND THE VOICE, but now it can be JACK LUCAS, THE FACE "AND" THE VOICE...or maybe just JACK - EXCLAMATION POINT...
I was nine in the sixties.
How un-sixties of you.
No, I have to work.
I'll remember that the next time you get excited by drawing pubic hairs on raisin bran. Want some?
Jack, it's a sitcom -- you're not defining Pi.
... First time in my life I'll be a voice with a body. Do you know what that means? What this could lead to?
They're putting me on film tomorrow.
Fine. I'll say no.
You know, tomorrow's a very big day for me... It would be nice if you acted like you understood.
You're so witty. I'm so jealous... I <u>need</u> to get out of here, Jack, and do something other than sit in this apartment and count how many funny lines you have per page.
About dinner as a concept or about dinner with... <u>Raoul</u>?
You can ask.
Can I ask that when you clean your hands you wipe the ink off the inside of the sink before it stains the stainless steel.
Tonight! How's tonight?
Okay... twenty dollars... When can you...
Well, since you're a member, we could...
You know, Anne does other people too. Sort of a sideline...
Yes. They're free.
Uh... you... you can pick out up to ten movies...
Well..um...you get an official membership card... Just sign that and we'll laminate it right here... Parry? You want to laminate Miss Sinclair's card?...
So how do we do this?
Yes. Hi..Congratulations. Jack Lucas. Nice to meet you finally. This is Anne Napolitano, the owner of Video Spot.
Hello. My name is Lydia Sinclair.
<u>No!</u> <u>I told you</u>! <u>You won a contest</u>!
Did Phyllis in accounting tell you to call me?
You get a VCR with the membership. ... For a short time until you get your own. Listen, why don't you come down to the store and you can check it out. See if you're interested.
Well, I mean... I don't know you... This has never... I've never won anything and... I don't have a VCR.
Well there.... What's the difference?
Well -- were there a lot of people in the room or just you or what?
Well, I don't understand. What did you do -- did you pick my name out of a hat or... or... a list?
Your name was picked.
All of them... Which means <u>you</u> have just won a free membership at our store on Second Avenue.
Well, congratulations Lydia, because out of several thousand card holders... in conjunction with several major credit card companies...
Yes well... You are a credit card holder, are you not?
Yeah? Who is this?
No... no... that's all right... I thought I knew her... Thanks...
God, I have no idea. She's worked here for fifteen years and I have no idea. I'll call her.
Lydia. Lydia what?
Uh... she was wearing a kind of... a flouncy kind of... uh... plain...
What girl? I didn't notice.
Could you help me-- what was the name of that girl who just came in...
Yeah.....Hey they're moving.... Am I doing that?
Beautiful night huh?
Parry, it's Lydia Sinclair - our membership winner.
I'm still scared.
No. Nothing bad's going to happen. Anne'll be there. I'll be there. Nothing bad will happen.
...I feel so much for her...I feel like something awful is going to happen.
What are the other reasons?
No. But that's not the only reason people get together or..stay together.
Tch...how romantic. Yeah. If I wasn't already committed to Lydia, boy. Except Anne'd never go for me though. She loves you too much. And you really love her, huh?
In a bar called Hellfire.
I'm sorry....I'm just so excited. You must have felt this way when you first met Anne, huh? Where did you two meet?
Will you stand still so I can do this!
<u>Parry</u>! Close your pants...
Holdin' my penis...
Is that what your girlfriend does for you?
Bad example. Just trust me. A woman who loves you keeps you going...gives you strength... Makes you feel like you can do anything...
Happily married, probably.
Well, see, I think she can help...You know women are great..they...they make homes and they..ya know, kill the livestock so the knights can go out and get Grails and...and slaughter villages with a clear head...I mean, where would Arthur be without Guinevere...
Maybe, when we get the Grail...
Parry, you don't have to <u>earn</u> a woman. It's the twentieth century.
I can't ask for her...I have to earn her.
Then let's begin with the story itself. It's a story of the Grail myth...And although there are several variations, my favorite begins with the Fisher King as a young boy... who had to spend a night alone in the forest to prove his courage... and during that night, he is visited by a sacred vision. Out of the fire, appears the Holy Grail - God's highest symbol of divine grace. And a voice says to the boy, "You shall be the guardian of the Grail, that it may heal the hearts of men"...But the boy was overcome ...Innocent and foolish, he was blinded by greater visions - a life ahead filled with beauty and glory, hope and power...Tears filled his eyes as he sensed his own... invincibility. A boy's tears of naive wonder and inspiration. and in this state of...radical amazement...he felt for a brief moment, not like a boy, but like God... ...And so he reached into the fire to take the Grail. And the Grail vanished. And the boy hands were left caught in the flames...leaving him wounded and ashamed at what his recklessness had lost him. When he became King, he was determined to reclaim his destiny and find the Grail... But with each year that passed, with each campaign he fought, the Grail remained lost, and this wound he suffered in the fire grew worse... He became a bitter man. Life for him lost it's reason. With each disappointment, with each betrayal... with each loss ... this wound would grow... Soon the land began to spoil from neglect and his people starved...Until finally, the King lost all faith in God's existance and in man's value...He lost his ability to love or be loved And he was so sick with experience... that he started to die. As the years went on, his bravest knights would search for the Grail that would heal their King and make them the most respected and valued men in the land, but to no avail. Pretty soon, finding the Grail became a ruthless struggle between ambitious men vying for the King's power, which only confirmed the King's worst suspicions of man, causing his wound to grow. His only hope, he thought, was death. Then one day, a fool was brought in to the King to cheer him. He was a simple-minded man... not particularly skilled...or admired... He tells the King some jokes...sing him some songs, but the King feels even worse...Finally, the fool says, "What is it that hurts you so much? How can I help?"...And the King says, "I need a sip of water to cool my throat"...So, the fool takes a cup from the bedstand, fills it with water and hands it to the King...Suddenly, the King feels a lot better. And when he looks to his hands, he sees that it was the Holy Grail the fool handed him...an ordinary cup that had been beside his bed all along...And the King asks, "How can this be?...how could you find what all my knights and wisest men could not find"? And the fool answers, "I don't know. I only knew you were thirsty."... And for the first time since he was a boy, the King felt more than a man - not because he was touched by God's glory...but rather, by the compassion of a fool.
Are there any questions?
YOU'RE OUT OF YOUR FUCKING MIND!!
Who are you talking to Jack?
..Ha...Little fella? I mean the man talks to invisible people - he sees invisible horses - and he's naked in the middle of Central Park. I should be surprised? I'm not surprised. I'm fucking outta my mind to even be here!
NO! I will not! This is nuts! I'm leaving! I mean it...this is nuts. This is too nuts...I'm leaving. I mean it!
Come on, try it. Ya feel the air on your body - ya little fella's flappin' in the breeze. ...everybody in the city is busy with their business and no one knows we're bare assed in the middle of it. Come on!
You can't do this! This is New York! Nobody lies in naked in a field in New York..It's...it's too Midwestern.
Have you ever done any cloudbusting? You lie on your back and you concentrate on the clouds...and you try yo break them apart with your mind. It's wild.
.....What are you doing?
Yes. I think that's very fair.
Well that's stupid. This is my park just as much as it is theirs. You think it's fair they keep us out just because they make us think we'll get killed or something?
Don't you think it's time to go now? Running around here during the day is one thing but at night we could be killed by a wide variety of people.
It's a classic.
It's such a great song.
Well, maybe he wants to stay here. Do...do you want to stay here?
Listen, he just needs to sleep it off. Someone will take care of him.
Buddy, the days of the debutantes are ... not what they used to be.
The Red...? You're totally gone, aren't you?
The Red Knight!
WHO! WHO'S RUNNING?!! WHO HAVE WE BEEN CHASING!?? CAN I ASK THIS QUESTION NOW!!!
Isn't it great up here... He's gone now, but we had him on the run! We would've had his ass if we had horses! He's running scared!
You're totally gone, aren't you?
He knows who you are! He's afraid! I can tell!
WILL YOU PLEASE... please listen to me ... You know none of this is true - PARRY the Grail, the voices... Jack... There's a part of you that Come on...what are knows this isn't true. saying... I know who you are... I know who you are.. or who you were. You're acting really- You don't belong on the No, no, no, no... streets. You're intelligent Jack... man....you're a teacher... Jacck!... You were a teach at Hunter College. Don't you remember?...
So what? You going to help me?
I don't believe in little floating people! THERE IS NO MAGIC!
That's why the Little People sent you. Just <u>like</u> magic.
I'm self-centered, I'm weak - I don't have the will power of a <u>fly</u> on shit...
You're a real honest to goodness <u>good</u> guy.
I'm not. Believe me. <u>I'm</u> scum.
You're a true <u>friend</u>.
Will you shut-up!!!
I LOVE THIS MAN...YA HEAR ME JADED CITY... ...I'M DAFFY ABOUT THIS GUY AND I DON'T CARE WHO KNOWS IT!!!
Please don't hug me in public again, O.K.?
...You are such a great guy. First the money, now this. Isn't he fabulous!?
No. I think you're a moron and I don't want to get into trouble.
Tch. You are so sweet...Now I know why you're saying this. ...You're afraid I'm in danger and you're trying to protect me.
I take it back - you're fucking deranged... And you're going to get yourself killed trying to get in there!
I don't need a job. I have a quest.
Look, you're only sort of insane, really. People like you can lead semi-normal lives. You could get a job...
Of course there is, Jack. What do you think the Crusades were - a frat initiation? I don't think so...There has to be a Grail.
All right! Listen - please...don't start drooling or...rolling your eyes when I tell you this but - You shouldn't do this..There is no Holy Grail.
O.K...let me explain this one more time...The Holly Grail is in -....
You can't just break into Langdon Carmichael's house. This man has done nothing.
Pretty impressive huh?...Don't let it scare you. I'll admit it's formidable but everything has it's weakness.
You really want to help me?
I don't know. But I gave it to you...to help YOU...not him.
Well what am I gonna do with it?
But I gave it to you!
What are you doing? Give that back!
Well, I think you should be realistic. Ya can't start an ad agency on fifty dollars!
No..I have to get back to work. Take care of yourself.
Can I take you to lunch?
No..no, it's..I don't know what to say. This is so nice of you...Jack...
Here's another twenty. Will that do? I mean, what's it going to take!
Here...I just would like to help you. I thought...maybe...you could use some money.
Well, if every time someone did something offensive they hit in the head with a pebble, I think they might alter their behavior. What do you think Jack...
Why did you do that?
I don't know.
What's her name?
Huh-huh. I'm deeply smitten.
Do you follow her every day?
"Soveriegn princess of his captive heart what dire affliction has thou made me suffer, thus banished from thy presence with reproach, and fettered by thy rigorous command, not to appear again before thy beautiful face. Deign princess, to remember this thy faithful slave, who now endures such misery for love of thee"....
Funny -- you look married.
I'm not married.
Thanks a mill -- And I'll give you a buzz as soon as I hear from the people upstairs and we'll get this thing off the ground... Thanks for stopping by, Jack. Give my love to the wife and kids.
Thanks... You can keep the doll.
Parry... I'm Jack.
Listen, forget the shoes. I'll just take a cab... Uh...
See, you don't know him... That's why you're the one... You can get it...
But I can't get it... He's...
I wish you all the luck in the world. When you get the Grail, I'm sure I'll be seeing lots of you on various talk shows...
Oh, please... you're embarrassing me.
I think you're a very nice... very nice psychotic man. I really appreciate what you did for me. It was a very brave and noble thing...
Listen... I don't mean to be flippant or to enrage you or anything but... you're an imbecile. And I'm not The One... I'm not <u>any</u> One...
I know! You can't imagine how surprised I was. Who would think you could find anything divine on the Upper East Side.
The Holy Grail? Some billionaire has the Holy Grail sitting in a commode on Madison Avenue?
God... I'm the janitor of God.
They work for Him.
But I need help and <u>they</u> sent you.
No, no... I mean that sort of happens along the way but no... I'm on a very special quest.
Uh... gee... well... you seem to be some kind of vigilante...
Take a guess... <u>Let him guess</u>!! <u>Tch</u>.
Uhh... I'm drawing a blank.
... Do you know who I am?
I'm not... Now, where are those shoes...
... I've got a right to say something. I mean, you're tying my hands here! They say you're not ready to know.
<u>Oh shut up</u>!!!
I'm the one what?
They said you're The One.
